
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 73763 ***







[Illustration: Cover art]





[Frontispiece: "THE TERRIFIC MOUTH OF THE MONSTER WAS WIDE OPEN."--p.
28]




  DAVE FEARLESS

  AFTER A SUNKEN TREASURE

  OR

  _THE RIVAL OCEAN DIVERS_



  BY

  ROY ROCKWOOD

  Author of "Dave Fearless on a Floating Island,", etc.



  ILLUSTRATED



  NEW YORK
  GEORGE SULLY & COMPANY
  PUBLISHERS




  BOOKS FOR BOYS

  BY

  ROY ROCKWOOD

  DAVE FEARLESS AFTER A SUNKEN TREASURE
  DAVE FEARLESS ON A FLOATING ISLAND
  DAVE FEARLESS AND THE CAVE OF MYSTERY


  Copyright 1918 BY
  GEORGE SULLY & COMPANY


  PRINTED IN U. S. A.




  CONTENTS

  CHAPTER

  I.  Punishing a Sneak
  II.  The Hankers' Move
  III.  A Strange Hotel Adventure
  IV.  An Ocean Monster
  V.  From One Danger into Another
  VI.  Struck by Lightning
  VII.  "I Cannot Talk!"
  VIII.  A Disastrous Hunt
  IX.  A Prisoner Underground
  X.  Dave Overhears a Plot
  XI.  Facing a Jaguar
  XII.  Well-Timed Shots
  XIII.  Surrounded by Savages
  XIV.  Another Capture
  XV.  A Door of Water
  XVI.  The Escape to the Coast
  XVII.  A Dash for a Rowboat
  XVIII.  On the Bosom of the Ocean
  XIX.  Fighting a Gorilla
  XX.  An Attack in the Dark
  XXI.  Dave and the Water Snake
  XXII.  What the Storm Brought
  XXIII.  On the Ship Once More
  XXIV.  Attacked by a Fire Fish
  XXV.  Left to Perish
  XXVI.  The Battle of the Fishes
  XXVII.  The Rival Divers
  XXVIII.  The Demons of the Deep
  XXIX.  The Escape from the Demons
  XXX.  In a Diving Bell
  XXXI.  The Treasure at Last--Conclusion




  DAVE FEARLESS AFTER A
  SUNKEN TREASURE



CHAPTER I

PUNISHING A SNEAK

"A million at the bottom of the sea, father?"

"That is what I said, Dave."

"It is a fortune!"

"There may be more than that.  But I am sure of the million."

"And it would belong to us if we found it?"

"Yes, every cent of it."

"But you say the Hankers lay claim to the fortune," went on Dave
Fearless, a handsome lad of seventeen, the only son of Amos Fearless,
ex-sea captain and marine architect.

"Yes, Lemuel Hankers always did claim the Washington fortune.  His
mother, you know, was a Washington."

"But so was your father."

"Exactly; and the money was left to our branch of the family, no
matter what the Hankers may say to the contrary."

"And it was shipped from China to San Francisco in the steamship
_Happy Hour_."

"Yes, but the _Happy Hour_ belied her name, for she went down in the
middle of the Pacific with all on board."

"And the exact location of this wreck?"

"Was not known up to six months ago.  Then the _Albatross_, making
some deep-sea fishing for the government, came upon some wreckage
which proved conclusively that the _Happy Hour_ had gone down in the
exact spot which I have marked on the chart here."

"Do the Hankers know of this locality?"

"I think not.  They were in Europe on a pleasure tour when the report
came in, and it is very likely that it escaped their notice."

"You must be right, for they are very rich, and if they thought they
could add to their fortunes they would fit out an expedition at once
and go in search of the sunken treasure."

"Right you are, Dave.  But they would have their hands full finding
it, for you must remember, the Pacific Ocean at this point is nearly
two miles deep."

"Two miles!"  Dave Fearless' face fell.  "Then we'll never see a
single piece of that gold."

"I have been thinking of the matter for several weeks, and I think I
have solved the problem of how to get to the wreck, if I can work the
plan I have in mind," replied Mr. Fearless, as he began to pace the
floor of the modest dining room thoughtfully.

"And what is your plan, father?"

"It is this: Two weeks from to-day our government is going to send
another ship to the Pacific, the _Swallow_, under the command of
Captain Paul Broadbeam."

"What, dear old Captain Broadbeam, whom we used to know at Nantucket
Light?"

"The same, Dave.  He will be in full charge of the expedition, which
is to sound the depths of the Pacific, locate any new islands which
may be brought to light, and drag the bottom of the ocean for strange
fish or marine animals, for the Fish Commission.  For this purpose
the expedition will take along one of the new Costell diving bells."

"You mean one of those glass cages which they can lower to the bottom
of the ocean and then walk around on big steel legs, like an
artificial crab?"

"Exactly.  They say they work perfectly, and if that is so, we ought
to be able to get to the wreck of the _Happy Hour_ and explore it
without difficulty."

"We?  Shall we go along with Captain Broadbeam?"

"If my application as master diver is accepted," and Amos Fearless
smiled faintly.

"Then you've applied for such a position?"

"Yes.  I did it as soon as I heard Broadbeam was in charge.  I know
he will do what he can for me."

"And what of me, father?"

"If I go, you shall go as assistant."

"Hurrah!  Then the sunken treasure is as good as ours!"

"Don't be too sure, Dave.  Even if we are successful, there is plenty
of work cut out for us before we lay our hands on that million
dollars, or any part of it.  We must--what's that?"

Mr. Amos Fearless broke off short and ran to the window of the
cottage in which he and his son lived.  "A fellow running down to the
beach!  He was at the window listening!"

"It's Bart Hankers!" burst from Dave's lips.  "Bart Hankers, of all
people!  He must have heard all we said."

"That's too bad!"  Amos Fearless gave a deep sigh.  "I wanted to keep
this a secret."

"The miserable sneak!" went on Dave, indignantly.  "I'm going after
him and see what he means by such conduct."

And before his father could stop him, the lad was out of the cottage
and running toward the beach at his best speed.

As said before, Dave Fearless was a youth of seventeen, tall,
well-built, and handsome.  He had been brought up along the coast of
Long Island Sound, and had spent two years of his life in a
lighthouse not far distant from his present residence in the village
of Quanatack.

Following in the footsteps of his father, Dave had taken to the water
naturally, and no boy on Long Island could swim better, row better,
or handle a sailboat more skillfully than he.  In addition to this,
Dave had often been with his father when the latter was working at
his trade as a master diver, and he knew more about the work of a
diver than did many men who followed it for a living.

Father and son lived together by themselves, Mrs. Fearless having
died several years before.  Mr. Fearless had once been fairly
well-to-do, but a fire, and the wild speculations of a brother, now
dead also, had robbed him of all of his savings and left him with
nothing but his hands to depend upon for a living.

The village in which the Fearlesses lived was not a large one, but it
contained some people who were very friendly to the master diver and
his son, and also contained some who were just the opposite.

Among the latter were Lemuel Hankers and his eighteen-year-old son
Bart.  The Hankers were distantly related to the Fearlesses, but as
the latter were poor, the relationship was never acknowledged by the
former.  Indeed, Bart Hankers took particular pains to snub Dave
Fearless upon every possible occasion.

Some of the snubbings flashed over Dave's mind as he sped after Bart
Hankers, who was running to where he had left a small boat tied up at
one of the village docks.

"I'll show him that he is not to play the sneak on us, even if he
does snub me," muttered Dave, as he reached the dock, to find Bart
just entering the rowboat.

In a minute he was at the stringpiece of the dock.

"Hi, Bart Hankers, I want to talk to you!" he called out.

"What do you want of me, Dave Fearless!" returned the rich youth,
sullenly.

"I want to know what you mean by playing sneak around our house."

"Around your house?  I haven't been near your house."

"Yes, you have.  You just came from there."

"It's untrue.  I have been up to Radley's store all the morning."

"I saw you and so did my father.  You're a nice sneak, you are, I
must declare.  If I were you I'd be ashamed of myself."

"See here, if you call me a sneak, I'll punch your head for you, Dave
Fearless!" howled Bart, angrily.

"Well, you are a sneak, so there!"

"So you want your head punched, do you?"

"If I do, you're not able to do the job."

"Won't I?  I'll show you."  And Bart leaped from the rowboat back to
the dock.

"You were up under our window listening to the talk between my father
and me."

"It isn't so!"

"It's the truth."

"You say another word and I'll thrash you within an inch of your
life!" howled Bart, working himself up into a magnificent rage.

"I am not afraid of you," answered Dave, calmly.  The fact that Bart
was two inches taller than himself and weighed at least fifteen
pounds more did not daunt him.

"Will you take back what you said?"

"Instead of taking it back, I repeat what I said--you are a mean
sneak, and I want everybody in this village to know it," answered
Dave, in a loud voice.

Several boys and a man were fishing near at hand, and now they drew
closer to learn what was the cause of the trouble.

The man, who did some work for Mr. Hankers, sided with Bart, but the
boys all favored Dave.

"Pitch into him, Dave," piped in one of the smaller lads.  "He puts
on too many airs, he does!"

"Don't you dare to touch Mr. Hankers," put in the man.

"I will do as I see fit, Hank Shores," retorted Dave.  "Don't you
interfere here."

"Never mind him, Shores," said Bart, with a sneer.  "I can handle him
well enough alone, and I'll give him all he wants, too."

"A fight! a fight!" exclaimed several of the boys, and soon a
fair-sized crowd collected on the dock, for, in a village, a fight is
a great event, to be talked over for many a day afterward.

"What's the trouble?" asked several.

"Dave Fearless and Bart Hankers are going to have it out."

"What started it?"

"Dave says Bart is nothing but a miserable sneak."

"You have got to take back what you said," blustered Bart, squaring
off.

"I'll take back nothing," retorted Dave.

He had scarcely spoken when the rich youth struck out and landed
lightly on his shoulder.

As quick as lightning Dave returned the blow, landing on Bart's nose
with just sufficient force to draw blood.

"Ouow!" howled the rich youth, and staggered back.

"First blood for Dave Fearless!"

"Give him another like that, Dave!"

In a worse rage than ever Bart rushed at Dave again and this time
caught him on the chin, and nearly knocked him down.

"There's one for Bart Hankers!"

"He'll down Dave Fearless yet!"

As quickly as he could Dave recovered and rushed at his opponent.

Blows now flew thick and fast, and Dave was hit on the shoulder, on
the chest, and on the cheek.

But he returned every blow with interest, and Bart received a crack
in the eye which made him see a thousand stars, and then another in
the mouth, which loosened two of his teeth.

"Oh!" he groaned, and staggered toward the end of the dock.

"Have you had enough?" demanded Dave.

"No."

Hardly had Bart answered when Dave squared off again.  Bart struck
out feebly and Dave warded off the blow with ease.

Then Dave's left fist shot out, fairly and squarely, and the rich
youth received a blow under the chin which lifted him off his feet
and sent him backward with a loud splash into the waters of Long
Island Sound.




CHAPTER II

THE HANKERS' MOVE

"Bart's overboard!"

"My! but wasn't that a clever blow!"

"Dave is too many for him, even if Bart is larger."

So the cries ran on as all rushed to the edge of the dock.

Bart Hankers had disappeared, but he soon came up, spluttering and
floundering around in a fashion to make many of those present laugh.

The water at the dock was not extra deep, and his head had become
covered with black mud from the bottom.

"You--you--rascal!" he cried, when he could speak.  "I'll--I'll have
you locked up for that!"

"Locked up!" cried several.  "What for?  It was a fair fight."

"Dave had no right to knock him into the water," put in Hank Shores.

Bart Hankers' rowboat was close at hand and into this the rich boy
climbed slowly and painfully, for he was still partly dazed by the
crack under the chin.

His wet and muddy appearance made many in the crowd laugh.

"I say, Bart, you look as if you were dressed for the ball!" cried
one boy.

"Now's the time to call on your best girl, Bart.  You're in good
shape for hugging her," added another.

"You fellows shut up!" growled the rich youth, shaking his fist at
them.  "If you don't I'll make it hot for the lot of you."

"About as hot as you made it for Dave Fearless, eh?" was the reply,
and a shout of derision went up.

Then one of the boys began to throw some fish bait at Bart, and in a
minute half a dozen youths were at it and Bart was struck in several
places.

"Oh, I must get away from here," he muttered and then cried to Hank
Shores: "Row me over to Purry's dock, will you, Shores?"

"I will," replied Shores, and leaping into the rowboat, took up the
oars.  Soon the craft was out of reach of those left behind.  But
before Bart got out of hearing he heard the village lads give a
hurrah for Dave Fearless.

"All right, Dave Fearless," he muttered, under his breath.  "You 're
on top this time, but I reckon my father and I will win in the long
run."

"He played you foul, Bart," said Shores, soothingly.  He was little
better than a sneak himself.

"He wouldn't have been able to do it only I--er--I sprained my arm at
rowing yesterday.  That's why I got you to row for me," answered
Bart.  But what he said about his arm was a falsehood.

Half an hour later Bart Hankers entered his elegant home at the end
of the main street of the village and sneaked up to the bathroom,
where he washed up and changed his wet clothing for a dry suit.  Then
he went downstairs and to the library, where his father sat, reading
the stock reports in a New York paper.

"Father, the mystery is solved," he said, as he closed the door
carefully, that nobody might hear what he had to say but his parent.

Lemuel Hankers, a thin, yellow-skinned man of fifty, looked at his
son curiously.

"What mystery, Bart?" he asked.

"The mystery of the missing Washington fortune."

"You don't mean it!" And the man leaped from his chair in
astonishment.

"I do mean it."

"What have you learned?"

"I know where the _Happy Hour_ went down."

"Where did you get your information?"

"From the Fearlesses."

"Do they know?"

"They do.  Quite by accident I overheard Dave and his father talking."

"Indeed!  Tell me the particulars," went on Lemuel Hankers.

Without a blush Bart related all he had overheard while eavesdropping
at the window of the Fearless cottage.  Hankers senior listened with
close attention.

"It is a shame that we should have missed this information when it
came in," he muttered.  "We might already be on the way to recover
the fortune."

"We ought to try and get that chart," said Bart.

"We won't want the chart.  I can get the same news from the
government that Amos Fearless has got."

"Let us go in search of the sunken treasure, dad.  It certainly
belongs to us."

"Of course it does, Bart.  Yes, if this news is true, I will go after
the missing million."

"But you will have to take expert divers along, and all that sort of
thing."

"I can do that easily.  I own stock in the San Francisco Wrecking
Company, and it will not be difficult for me to charter one of their
vessels, along with all the latest appliances for raising valuables
from the ocean's depths."

"Then wouldn't it be advisable for us to start at once?"

"I must find out the particulars of this matter first."

"How will you do that?"

"The easiest way will be to make a trip to Washington."

"Then you had better go to-night."

"I will," answered Lemuel Hankers.

He was as good as his word, and the next day found him at Washington.

He quickly introduced himself to the proper parties and from them
learned as much as Amos Fearless knew concerning the location of the
wrecked _Happy Hour_.  That the ship had been exactly located there
could be no doubt.  But it was also true that the ocean currents were
gradually shifting the wreck from one position to another.

"If anything is to be done it must be done soon," he said, upon
returning home.  "That section of the ocean's bed is subject to
earthquakes, and an earthquake might sink the _Happy Hour_ so that no
diver could find her again."

"Then why don't you start for San Francisco at once?"

"I will make up my mind inside of the next twenty-four hours,"
answered Lemuel Hankers.

"Of course, if you go you'll take me along," went on Bart.

"I wasn't thinking of doing so."

"I don't want to stay behind.  Dave Fearless is going with his dad."

"But they are both expert divers and will do their own work, while I
will have to have our work hired out."

"I don't care.  I want to be on hand to see the Fearlesses outwitted."

"Very well then, you shall go," answered Lemuel Hankers.

The next day saw the rich man and his son on their way to San
Francisco, to fit out an expedition to hunt for the sunken treasure.




CHAPTER III

A STRANGE HOTEL ADVENTURE

"Father, I have news for you!" cried Dave Fearless, as he rushed into
the cottage all out of breath.

"What now, Dave?"

"The Hankers have left Quanatack and gone to San Francisco."

"Impossible!"

"It's true.  They took the train for New York, and Sam Dilks
overheard Bart ask his father what the tickets to San Francisco would
cost."

"That looks bad."

"And that isn't the worst of it.  Sam also overheard them talking
about the San Francisco Wrecking Company and heard Mr. Hankers say he
felt sure he could get the vessel without delay."

"Then they must be after the sunken treasure beyond a doubt, Dave."
Amos Fearless gave a slight groan.  "They'll get the start of us
after all!"

"How about that job for us on the _Swallow_?"

"I have heard nothing new."

"If I were you I'd send a long letter to Captain Broadbeam and let
him know just how we stand."

"I will do it."

The letter was sent that night, and then the Fearlesses waited
anxiously for a reply.

Two days later came a telegram from Washington.  It was from their
old friend the captain and ran as follows:


"Both engaged at salary mentioned in letter.  Report here without
delay."


"Hurrah!  We 're in it after all!" shouted Dave, flinging up his cap,
and he danced a jig for joy.  "Now for the Pacific Ocean and the
missing fortune!"

Father and son had prepared everything for a start from home, and
that evening saw them on the way to Washington.  They spent the night
in New York, and reported at the Capital City at noon the next day.

"Glad to see you," said Captain Broadbeam, shaking both by the hand.
"Come over to my hotel and we'll talk matters over."  He was a
round-faced, jolly old sea-dog, and nobody could help liking him.

At the hotel the captain was let into the secret of the sunken
treasure, in which he immediately took a deep interest.  When Lemuel
Hankers was mentioned he scowled.

"He is my enemy," he said.  "He tried to get me out of my position so
that some captain friend of his could have the berth.  I'd be glad to
knock the wind out o' his sails, consarn him!"

"Where is the _Swallow_ now?"

"At San Francisco, all ready to sail."

"And when shall we go West?"

"Day after to-morrow, and you can go along with me."

A long talk followed, during which Amos Fearless asked about a diving
bell.

"Yes, we have the very latest pattern on board of the _Swallow_,"
answered Captain Broadbeam, "and we shall also take along the very
best of diving outfits, deep-sea sounders, and drag-nets--better even
than those on the _Albatross_."

"Then we'll be fixed to go right ahead," said Mr. Fearless.  "But we
must get ahead of Lemuel Hankers and his son."

"Trust me to do that, Fearless.  But when it comes to going down to a
wreck as lies two miles under the surface o' the ocean, why, you and
Dave will have to do that part o' the job."

"And we will," put in Dave, quickly.  "I know it is a gigantic
undertaking, but with; the proper outfits, I feel convinced that we
will get there sure!" and he shook his head confidently.

In secret Amos Fearless promised Captain Broadbeam twenty-five per
cent. of any sum recovered from the wreck, providing the government
would allow the officer to accept the amount.

It was not until late that night that the party separated and Dave
and his father retired to a room in another part of the hotel.

When they left Captain Broadbeam, a man in a room next to the
captain's got up from his knees, for he had been down listening at
the keyhole of a door which connected the two apartments.

This fellow was named Pete Rackley, and he was in Lemuel Hankers'
employ.

"I'm onto their game right enough," muttered Rackley to himself.  "So
they are going to outwit my boss?  Well, I reckon not."

Before going to bed that night, Pete Rackley wrote a long letter to
Lemuel Hankers, telling the rich man of what he had heard.

He felt that he must keep Dave and his father from going West to join
the _Swallow_, no matter what the cost.

So he at once laid a plan to have Dave arrested for supposed
pocket-picking.

The next morning he met Dave in the reading room, where he had gone
to glance over the newspapers.

Unknown to Dave he approached the lad and dropped into his coat
pocket a pocket-book containing ten dollars and a visiting card upon
which was written his name, Peter Rackley.

Then he walked out into the hallway to the door of the hotel, stopped
suddenly, and gave a cry:

"My pocket-book!  It is gone!"

"What's that, sir?" demanded the hotel clerk, who happened to be
passing.

"My pocket-book is gone!  It must have been stolen from me!"

"Did it have much in it?"

"Ten dollars or more."

"Perhaps you dropped it, sir."

"Hardly.  I had it quarter of an hour ago.  when I was in the reading
room.  Ha, I have it!  That young man took it from me."  And Pete
Rackley started back to the reading room.

"What young man?"

"The fellow who brushed up so close to me at the table.  There he
is!"  Rackley ran up to Dave and caught him by the shoulder.  "You
thief!" he ejaculated.  "Give me back my money!"

Of course Dave was taken completely by surprise.

"Your money?" he repeated.  "I know nothing of your money."

"You must have it.  Sir, will you have him searched?" went on Pete
Rackley to the clerk.

"Certainly, he can search me if he wishes," said Dave, promptly.  "I
am no thief."

A few more words followed, and the clerk began to search Dave.  Soon
the pocket-book was brought to light, much to Dave's astonishment and
dismay.

"Ha! what did I tell you!" ejaculated Pete Rackley.  "Call an officer
at once.  I want this young rascal arrested on the spot!" and he
caught hold of Dave again, that the youth might not escape.




CHAPTER IV

AN OCEAN MONSTER

Dave knew not what to say.  Here he was accused of a robbery of which
he knew absolutely nothing.  The very prison doors seemed opening to
receive him.

But while he stood there, not knowing what would happen next, an
unexpected friend stepped up in the shape of a stranger, who had been
reading in a corner.

"Excuse me, but there is something wrong here," said the stranger.
"That man is no thief, to my way of thinking."

"What do you know of this?" demanded the hotel clerk.

"A short while ago I saw that man come up behind this young man and
slip that pocket-book into his pocket.  I thought at the time he was
playing some friendly joke, but it seems he was up to something more
serious."

At these words Pete Rackley turned deadly pale.  He was caught in his
own trap, and he knew it.

"It's false!" he began.  "I--I----"

"I saw the action, too," put in another stranger.  "I thought it very
queer."

"We'll have the police investigate this," said the hotel clerk, and
told a hallman to call an officer of the law.

This did not suit Pete Rackley at all.

"I--I guess there is some mistake," he stammered, and turning, he ran
from the room and from the hotel.  Although he had left a trunk
behind him, he never came back to claim the property.

"That was a queer thing to do," said one of the strangers to Dave,
after the excitement was over.  "Is he your enemy?"

"He must be, but he is a stranger to me," answered our hero.

The trip to San Francisco was made without anything special
happening, and soon Dave and his father found themselves on board of
the _Swallow_, which lay at her dock taking on the last of her stores
for the long trip around the Pacific Ocean.

After a number of inquiries, Amos Fearless learned that Lemuel
Hankers had chartered the small steamer _Raven_, from the Wrecking
Company, and had set sail on his treasure quest the day previous.

"Never mind, we'll make up for lost time when once we get started,"
said Captain Broadbeam.  "I fancy the _Swallow_ is a better boat in
every way than the _Raven_."

Two days later the _Swallow_ sailed with Mr. Fearless and Dave on
board as master diver and assistant.

The diving outfits on board pleased the master diver very much, and
he was likewise greatly interested in the diving bell the ship
carried.

"That ought to be just the thing for our work," he said to Dave, "if
they can let it down to where the wreck of the _Happy Hour_ rests."

"But two miles is a tremendous distance, father."

"I know it.  I have never yet gone down over three hundred feet."

"Perhaps we shall fail."

"We must try a short distance first, Dave.  We can't go down those
two miles at the start.  Captain Broadbeam wishes us to go down
to-morrow anyway, to hunt for some strange fish, said to be in these
waters, a fish known by the scientific name of Eurypharynx
Pelecanoides."

"What a fearful name!" muttered Dave.  "Is the fish as bad?"

"Yes, and worse.  The monster is said to be all of twenty feet long,
with a head larger than a hogshead and a mouth seven feet across.
Its body and tail are covered with spines or stickers, and its teeth
are like so many large needles."

"Truly an ugly customer to meet," and Dave shuddered.

"I am afraid he'll be an ugly customer to bag--in a net or otherwise."

"Are we to use the diving bell?"

"Yes, we are to try it, but we are likewise to use our diving suits,
too---just to try both outfits," returned the master diver.

The next day the _Swallow_ reached a section of the Pacific where the
strange fish described by Amos Fearless was supposed to exist, upon
the bottom of the ocean bed, half a mile below the surface.

Diving suits were brought forth, and Mr. Fearless and Dave were not
long in preparing to descend.

Then the diving bell was adjusted to a long wire rope and let over
the side, and they entered this.

The word was given, and slowly but surely they descended into the
cold and dark depths of the mighty Pacific.

At a distance of two hundred feet the bright sunshine overhead began
to fade away, and at five hundred feet it was as black as night, that
is, some distance away from the diving bell.  But around the bell
several electric lights in the apparatus made all as bright as day.

Down and down they went, the pressure on the diving bell becoming
each second more powerful.

At such a depth no human being could have lived without something to
protect him from a weight which was ever ready to crush anything from
the outside world.

At last the diving bell rested on the bottom of the ocean, and Amos
Fearless sent up the signal to stop lowering.

Then father and son inspected the ocean's bottom with much curiosity.

Here were numerous fish of curious shapes, but none of large size.
There were also sea crabs, with sharp claws and protruding reddish
eyes.

But no sign of the Eurypharynx Pelecanoides, the wonderful fish, of
which they had been sent in search.

"It seems to be safe enough," said Dave to his father, in the sign
language of divers.  "Let us go outside and look around."

"But not too far away from the diving bell," answered the master
diver.  "The pressure may make us sick, and then we'll have to get
inside again as quickly as possible."

Soon they were ready, and with a fresh supply of air in their
helmets, they stepped out upon the slimy, black surface of the
ocean's bottom.

At sight of them the small fish thrashed around wildly, and the sea
crabs scampered in all directions.

With caution they moved away from the bell to where the bottom
appeared to slope downward.

Here there was a large hole, and they wondered what might be at its
bottom.

Dave was well in advance, when of a sudden a strange sensation
brought him to a halt and made him glance to his left.

A shriek of terror burst from his lips.

The dreadful Eurypharynx Pelecanoides had appeared, and was making
swiftly towards him.  The terrific mouth of the monster was wide
open, as if to swallow him alive!




CHAPTER V

FROM ONE DANGER INTO ANOTHER

"I am lost!"

Such was the agonizing thought which crossed Dave Fearless' mind when
he beheld himself confronted by the fish known as the Eurypharynx
Pelecanoides, commonly called the Sea Devil of the Ocean's Bottom.

The monster was all of twenty feet long, with a head closely
resembling a black rubber balloon.  Its eyes shone like two
electric-light globes, while its mouth opened and shut with a
strange, clicking sensation which went through the young diver like
the piercing of a needle.

Dave's thought was to retreat to the diving bell, but this seemed
impossible, for the monstrous fish was only a few yards off and
approaching rapidly.  It looked as if in another moment all would be
over and he would be swallowed alive, like Jonah of old.

A million thoughts rushed through his brain--thoughts of his younger
days, of his happy life around the lighthouse--and of how the Hankers
might yet triumph over his father and himself.  In the meanwhile the
monster came closer, and now it emitted from its mouth a horrible
green slime, with which to cover its victim before swallowing him,
after the manner of its cousin on earth, the boa constrictor.

But at this moment, when the youth seemed surely lost, something
happened as quickly as it was unexpected, and which changed the whole
course of events.

Through the black waters rushed another fish, long, thin, and
exceedingly bony.  From the snout of this fish stuck a sword-like
spear, fully three feet long, with a point like that of a dart.

This was the Devil's Needle, another monster of the deep, and dreaded
by all other monsters, for it is the deadly enemy of everything that
crosses its path.

There was a strange, hissing sound, a thrust, and the sword-like
spear was thrust into the side of the Eurypharynx Pelecanoides.

It was like sticking into an inflated bladder.

The water was at once dyed crimson and the mighty ocean monster swept
back and then began to thrash around wildly, sending mud and sand,
slime and blood, flying in all directions.

As quickly as it had appeared, the Devil's Needle now disappeared.

Too faint to stand, Dave sank back on the ocean bottom.

But his father was close at hand, and with rare presence of mind he
caught up his son and carried him to the diving bell.

In another moment both were inside of the machine and had the door
bolted.

They were now, as they thought, safe from harm, and Amos Fearless
lost no time in turning the electric light of the diving bell upon
the Sea Devil of the Ocean's Bottom.

It was still thrashing around in a circle, but gradually its
struggles became fainter, and at last it lay quiet.

"He's done for," said the parent, in the divers' sign language.  "I
will fasten him to the bottom of the bell and then signal them on the
ship to haul up."

"Be careful," cautioned Dave.  "That other fish may serve you as he
just served that horrible creature."

"We will move the diving bell close to the dead creature," answered
Amos Fearless.

This was done without much difficulty, by means of a set of levers
which connected with the artificial steel claws of the diving bell.

Then Amos Fearless went forth once more, taking with him a short
chain, which he began to fasten around the slimy and sticky body of
the dead Sea Devil.

The job was a nasty one, but this could not be helped, and therefore
he made the best of it.

He had just finished the work when Dave saw the Devil's Needle again
approaching.

So far the fish had not seen Mr. Fearless, but now it spotted him and
made a dart forward as if to thrust the old diver through and through
with that bony sword.

Dave's heart leaped into his throat, for he imagined nothing could
save his father from death.

But then came the thought of moving the diving bell into the fish's
path.

He grabbed two of the levers and pushed them down, violently.

Acting under the impetus thus given, the diving bell made a stride
forward, directly in the path of the Devil's Needle.

Crash!

Full against the steel frame of the bell came the sword-like spear of
the fish.

Another crack followed, as the spear was broken off close to the
creature's snout.

The great shock stunned the Devil's Needle and it turned over on its
side and sank slowly to the ocean's bottom.

Realizing that something was wrong, Amos Fearless turned, just in
time to witness the breaking off of the bony spear.

He started for the diving bell, then of a sudden changed his plan of
action.

One of the diving bell's steel claws lay close to the Devil's Needle,
and this he raised up and placed over the monster.

Dave, inside of the bell, understood, made the lever work, and
immediately the claw fastened itself around the body of the
half-stunned fish.

Then Amos Fearless picked up the broken-off sword spear and
re-entered the bell.

In a moment more the signal was given to rise, and slowly the diving
bell went up to the surface of the ocean, dragging the bodies of the
two deep-sea monsters with it.

"A glorious find!" cried Captain Broadbeam, when the two monsters
were hoisted on board of the _Swallow_.

"Yes, but we don't want to make another such find under the same
circumstances," answered Amos Fearless.  And then he related the
particulars of the adventure on the bottom of the ocean.

There were two scientists on board of the ship and they went to work
at once to prepare the bodies of the two fish which had been caught.

"That sword spear can be fastened on again," said one of the learned
gentlemen.  "And then the specimen will be practically perfect."

"Folks at home ought to see them alive," said Dave.  "I never saw
such a horrible sight in my life!"

"These fish could not live in ordinary water," was the answer.  "See,
the breathing apparatus on each is already bursting.  They can only
live at a depth of half a mile or more.  If one tried to reach the
surface by swimming upward, it would only be committing suicide."

"I don't quite understand the reason for that, sir."

"It is simple, my lad.  You know the air around us presses us on
every inch of our bodies, and we are built to resist that pressure.
An ordinary fish is built to resist the pressure of ordinary water.
Such a fish as the Sea Devil is built to resist the pressure of
hundreds of pounds to the square inch, and consequently when it is
brought up, the pressure inside is too great for the pressure
outside, and that destroys the breathing power of the marine animal,"
concluded the learned man.

By evening the _Swallow_ was on her way westward once more and the
scientific men had the specimens almost ready to be placed in huge
tanks of alcohol.

So far, nothing had been seen or heard of the _Raven_, but a strict
watch was kept each day for the Hankers' vessel.

But one more stop was to be made, at the island of San Murio, and
then the _Swallow_ was to proceed directly for the locality where the
treasure ship _Happy Hour_ had gone down.

Day after day passed and nothing of importance occurred.

One afternoon there was some slight break in the machinery and the
ship had to come to a stop for a couple of hours while repairs were
being made.

It was a hot day and several of the sailors readily obtained
permission to go in swimming.

"I think I will join them," said Dave to his father.  "The water
looks cool and tempting."

"All right, Dave," was the answer.  "But take care you don't get a
cramp."

"If I do, you can bet I'll yell for help," laughed the young diver.

He was soon in the water and sporting around to his heart's content.

The sailors had allowed one of the small boats to drift astern, and
Dave swam to this and showed several of them how to make deep dives
and long stretches under the ocean's surface.

The party were in the midst of having a lot of fun when a thrilling
cry came from the ship.

"A shark!  A shark!  Beware of the shark!"

All gazed in the direction pointed out, and saw a huge shark
approaching rapidly, as if prepared to devour one or another of them!




CHAPTER VI

STRUCK BY LIGHTNING

"We will be devoured!"

"Swim for the ship, boys!"

"See, he is coming this way!"

"Save me, somebody!  Save me!"

Such were some of the cries which rang out as the sailors swam,
terror-stricken, in one direction or another.

In the meantime the shark came on rapidly.  He was a big creature,
with a cruel-looking mouth and teeth that were equally ugly.

At first he turned toward one of the sailors, who was swimming for
the ship.

But a rope was thrown to the tar, and this he grasped and was hauled
on board with all rapidity.

Then the shark turned for another of the sailors.

But this fellow was making for the small boat, and soon he was on
board and safe for the time being.

Then the shark turned swiftly and came for Dave.

The youth dove at once, remembering that a shark can attack under
water only with difficulty.

But the boy could not remain under the surface forever, and at last
he had to come up, this time somewhat closer to the _Swallow_.

But the shark saw him and turned again to attack the young diver.

It was a critical moment, and Dave was about to give himself up for
lost when a shot rang out, followed by another.

Amos Fearless had been in the cabin when the shout of "Shark!" was
raised.

Knowing at once the peril of the situation, he had caught a gun from
the cabin wall and lost no time in hurrying to the deck.

The shark was still ten feet away from Dave when Mr. Fearless fired.

The first bullet struck the monster in the side, doing little damage.

But the shark turned his head to learn what had hit him and in a
twinkle Amos Fearless discharged the weapon a second time.

This time the bullet struck the shark squarely in the eye and entered
the marine creature's brain.

Up leaped the shark, clear above the water, to fall with a shock that
sounded like the report of a cannon.

The water flew in all directions, drenching all who stood at the rail
of the _Swallow_ taking in the appalling situation.

In its death agonies the shark hurled itself against the ship,
lifting its tail clear to the rail and wrecking a portion of the
woodwork.  Then it turned and dove for the small boat.  The sailor on
board had just time enough to leap out and dive, when the marine
creature struck it with all force, smashing the rowboat to atoms.

But that was the last act of the shark.  In a minute more it was
dead, and floated on the bosom of the ocean close to the ship.

A line was thrown to Dave and the sailors, and all were hauled on
board.

"My boy!  My boy!" murmured Amos Fearless.  "What a narrow escape for
you!"

"You saved my life, father!" replied Dave.  He could scarcely speak,
but the grip he gave his parent's hand meant a good deal.

Some of the sailors wanted to bring the shark's remains on board, to
get the teeth, and Captain Broadbeam consented, and later on, the
scientists on the _Swallow_ prepared the skeleton for mounting, to be
sent to the Smithsonian Institution at Washington.

It remained very warm, and Captain Broadbeam looked constantly for a
storm.

"Almost all ships catch 'em in these latitudes," he remarked to Dave.
"This may be a long time a-coming, but it will pay up for lost time
when it does come."

In this surmise Captain Broadbeam was correct.

Two days later, while the sun was shining brightly, there appeared a
cloud to the south-west, scarcely bigger than a man's hand.

But the cloud grew larger with great rapidity, until it covered half
the sky, and the sunlight was shut out and soon all became as dark,
almost, as night.  The wind began to blow and soon the waves were
running higher and higher.

"We must run into the teeth of the storm," said the captain, and gave
orders to change the course.

Presently it began to rain, and then followed lightning and thunder
which were almost incessant.

"Never saw anything to match it," declared Dave, as he put on his
oilskins and joined his father on the stern deck.  "This beats those
we had off Long Island all to pieces!"

"Right you are, Dave," answered Amos Fearless.  "Take good care that
you are not swept overboard."

The storm increased in violence until the _Swallow_ was heaving and
pitching as never before.  At one moment she would be riding on the
top of a very mountain of water, at the next she would be going down
and down into a tremendous hollow that looked as if it would swallow
up the stanch ship forever.

Captain Broadbeam surveyed the storm with anxiety, for he realized
that it was unusually severe, and threatened the very existence of
his craft.

The lightning played all around the metalwork of the ship, and the
roar of the thunder was deafening.

"You had better go below," said the captain to Dave and his father.
"You can do nothing on deck."

"Yes, we will go below," answered Amos Fearless.  "Come, my son," and
he led the way down into the cabin.

All of the ports and doors had been closed, and the air was stifling
in the shut-up apartment, but of this there was no use to complain.

All crockery, glassware, and other loose objects had long since been
secured, or they would have been flung in every direction.

Dave sat down in a chair screwed to the floor, and did his best to
keep his seat.

At one moment he felt like pitching forward, at the next he seemed
about to turn a back somersault.

The electric light burned dimly, for the electricity in the air had
affected the circuit.

"We can be thankful when we are out of this," observed Mr. Fearless,
as he, too, clung to a chair.  "I never dreamed it could blow so hard
and keep it up.  In our eastern storms there is generally a lull
every few minutes."

"I wonder if the _Raven_ is in this, father?"

"There is no telling.  This storm-center may be but a few miles in
diameter."

"I am almost tempted to wish the _Raven_ at the bottom of the ocean."

"That wouldn't be right, Dave."

"I know.  But supposing they get ahead of us and the Hankers scoop in
the Washington fortune?"

"Then we will have to pocket our loss and make the best of it."

"But our claim is better than theirs."

"Morally, yes.  But you must remember that legally the fortune will
belong to whoever finds it, for it was abandoned at sea many years
ago."

"I suppose that is so."

"For my part, Dave, I believe that neither of us will have an easy
job to obtain the fortune.  It is going to be a great task to even
reach the sunken wreck."

"Oh, I know that.  But the diving bell will help us."

"It will help a great deal.  But you must remember the wreck may be
turned over, or buried almost out of sight in the mud of the ocean
bottom.  In that case we'll have a lot of work to do before any of us
can get into the ship and even locate the lost treasure."

"Never mind, father, the amount to be gained will be well worth all
the trouble we will take to gain it."

"To be sure, for such a vast sum isn't picked up more than once in a
lifetime, even at the best.  We can be certain--Heavens! what's that?"

Amos Fearless broke off short, and with good reason.

A fearful shock had come, as a bolt of lightning struck the forward
works of the _Swallow_.

Then followed a strange hissing as the lightning played over the
electric wires of the ship.

A blinding flash entered the cabin, followed by a crack as of a
pistol, and Dave, half stunned, saw his father pitch forward across
the table like one dead!




CHAPTER VII

"I CANNOT TALK!"

"Father!  Tell me that you are alive!  That you are not dead!"

Such was the agonizing cry which issued from Dave's lips as he gazed
upon his parent.

Amos Fearless' face was like chalk, his eyes were set, and he
certainly looked as if the breath of life had gone from him forever.

The _Swallow_ was rolling and pitching so fearfully that for the time
being the young man could do but little.

Yet he raised a cry which quickly brought the cabin boy to his side.

"What's up?" asked the boy, and then, seeing the stilled form, he
continued: "Is he dead?"

"I--I hope not.  But send Doctor Barrell here at once."

Doctor Barrell was one of the scientists attached to the expedition.
He was a learned man, and Dave felt certain that if anything could be
done for his parent, Doctor Barrell could do it.

The cabin boy went off with difficulty, and it was fully ten minutes
before he returned with the medical man.

In the meantime, Dave laid his parent on the floor.

By placing his ear to his parent's breast, he found that his father
still breathed faintly.

He was just pouring water over the sufferer's face when Doctor
Barrell came in.

"What is the trouble?" he asked.  "Has he had a tumble?  I do not
wonder; I have tumbled twice myself."

"No, he has been struck by lightning, doctor.  Please do all you can
for him."

"Struck by lightning!  In here?  How?"

"The lightning entered on the electric-light wire and he got the full
force of the shock.  I was partly stunned myself."

"I don't wonder.  You can thank your stars that both of you are not
dead."

"But my father?"

Before replying to this query, Doctor Barrell proceeded to make a
thorough examination.

In the midst of this, Amos Fearless opened his eyes and stared around
him, feebly.

But he could not move his tongue.

"He will live," said the doctor, slowly.  "But----"

"But what, sir?"

"He may not be able to--that is, he has had a very heavy shock."

"Yes, yes!  But what will he not be able to do?" questioned Dave,
quickly.

"Perhaps I had better not answer that question just yet, David.
There is no use of alarming you," and the physician turned away to
prepare some medicines for the sufferer.

The night to follow was an anxious one to Dave.

Despite the storm, which did not let up for an instant, he remained
constantly by his parent's side.

It was daybreak before Amos Fearless was pronounced out of danger.

He still lay in a semi-dazed condition, but his heart-beats were
growing stronger every hour.

"In a few days he will probably be able to be around," said the
doctor, and then he turned away to hide his troubled looks from Dave.

The youth saw the action and was more worried than ever.

As soon as the storm had abated and something could be cooked, he had
a bowl of nourishment made for his father.

The sufferer swallowed a few spoonfuls, and that was all, and even
that little went down with difficulty.

"Do you feel better, father?" he asked, soothingly.

Slowly Amos Fearless nodded.  His lips moved slightly, but no
intelligible sound came from them.

"Don't try to talk," went on the boy.  "Take it easy and you will be
yourself in a few days."

Again Mr. Fearless nodded, and then fell back, to doze off again.

The next day he was strong enough to sit up.  The storm was now over
and the _Swallow_ was proceeding on her way to the island at which
she was to stop.

"You are better now, surely," said Dave, speaking as cheerfully as he
could.

For answer, Amos Fearless pointed to his mouth and then made a motion
as if writing on paper.

A sudden horror seized Dave, causing a cold chill to run down his
backbone.

"What is it?" he cried.  "Oh, father, can't you speak?"

Again the old diver made a motion as if writing, and Dave hurriedly
brought him a pencil and a writing pad.

Quickly Amos Fearless set down the following:

"My tongue is paralyzed and I cannot talk."

As Dave read the words, his very heart seemed to stop beating.

His father had become a mute!

The shock was an awful one.

He turned to the doctor, who had just come in.

"See what my father has written!" he cried.  "Oh, doctor, cannot
something be done?"

"It is what I feared," replied Doctor Barrell, gravely.  "I have
known of such cases before.  I had such a case to treat in Richmond,
about six years ago."

"And the sufferer--does he talk now?" was Dave's eager question.

Doctor Barrell shook his head, slowly.

"I am sorry to say he does not, although in every other respect he is
a perfectly healthy man."

"But my father--cannot you give me some hope?"

"Let us hope for the best, David."

"You will do all you can for him?"

"To be sure I will."

The day was a perfect one, but Dave was utterly downcast and refused
to be comforted.

The thought that his parent might remain a mute forever almost
unnerved him.

"I'd rather lose the sunken treasure," he groaned to himself.

At nightfall the _Swallow_ came in sight of the island of San Murio,
and dropped anchor in a little bay surrounded by palms and other
tropical trees.

The scene was a beautiful one, and had Dave's mind been free from
care he would have enjoyed it thoroughly.

Amos Fearless was brought on deck and made comfortable in a steamer
chair.

He was gaining strength rapidly, and the doctor expected the old
diver to be around again in a week or ten days.

But he could not use his tongue for talking purposes, although he had
little trouble in swallowing food.

Early the next morning some of the sailors from the _Swallow_ were
sent ashore for water.

"I wouldn't mind going," said Dave, in reply to a question from
Captain Broadbeam.  "But I hate to leave father."

Amos Fearless overheard this and at once wrote on a pad:

"Go, Dave, and have a good time.  I'll be all right.  This will be
your last chance to stretch your legs on shore for many weeks to
come."

So the young diver went ashore with the men, and while the sailors
filled their water casks, Dave and a young engineer of the ship,
named Bob Vilett, went off on a hunt, taking with them a shotgun and
a rifle.

They had heard that numerous wild goats lived upon the island of San
Murio, and thought to bag several of these by way of diversion.

"And who knows but what we'll bring down something larger, too!" said
Bob Vilett, who was in his way quite a sportsman.

The _Swallow_ was to remain at her anchorage until the next morning,
so the pair had the whole day before them.  Dave carried a pouch full
of food, and Bob a good-sized water bottle, so that they were well
provided, even if they did not bring down anything worth eating.

"Take good care of yourselves," said Captain Broadbeam, on parting
with them.  "Don't run into danger."

"We'll be careful," answered Dave, and off the pair set, never
dreaming of the strange adventure and the grave peril in store for
them.




CHAPTER VIII

A DISASTROUS HUNT

The island of San Murio is not over six miles wide by twenty miles
long.  It is composed of two lines of hills, with a deep valley
between.  The hills are rocky and much broken, and there are numerous
waterfalls and tiny brooks, as well as cliffs and caverns.  The
growth of trees and underwood is dense, and Dave and his friend had
frequently all they could do to push their way along.

Both were in fine spirits, and Bob was inclined to burst into song,
only Dave silenced him.

"If you sing you'll surely scare all the game away," he said.  "A
wild goat will hear your voice half a mile off."

"Right you are, Dave," returned Bob, "However, I can't repress my
spirits when I'm ashore.  It's so much better than being down in the
hot and stuffy engine room of a steamship," and Bob threw down his
rifle and made a handspring or two, after which he resumed his walk,
feeling better.

A half-hour's journey brought them close to the top of the first
series of hills, at a point opposite a small inland lake.

"Go slow now," whispered Bob.  "There may be goats beyond."

They peered over the top of the hill with care, and sure enough, down
at the lake shore they made out two large goats and two kids, all
drinking.

"Take the one to the right, and I'll take the one to the left!" said
Bob, in a low voice.  "Ready?  Then fire!"

Crack! bang! went the rifle and the shotgun, and both of the large
goats were seen to leap up and back as though struck.

But neither was fatally wounded, and both started to run slowly
around the lake shore, to the line of hills on the opposite side,
with the kids following.

"Come, we had better go after 'em!" ejaculated Bob, and led the way,
and Dave followed, both reloading as they ran.

It was no easy task to reach the lake front, and by that time the
goats were rushing up the hills opposite.

"Fire again!" cried Dave, and blazed away, bringing his game to its
knees.  Bob also fired, but missed his mark.  Then on they went
again, over rocks and stubble and through a mass of trailing vines,
to where Dave's goat had gone down.  The animal was dead.

"Good for you!" cried Bob.  "Now I must do as well!" and away he went
again, with Dave at his heels, anxious, if possible, to add the kids
to his bag.

At the top of the second line of hills the wounded goat made a sharp
turn to the left.

On went the young hunters after him, never dreaming of the pitfall
into which they were rushing.

They were now side by side, and Bob was on the point of blazing away
at the wounded goat, in full view before him, when Dave clutched his
arm.

"Back!"

"What's up?"

"Nothing's up, but we'll be down if we don't take care!"

"What do you mean?"

Before Dave could reply, Bob saw what had caused the young diver to
become alarmed.

They were walking over some moss and brushwood, and the mass under
their feet was shaking like so much jelly.

Both started to retreat, but it was too late!  Down went the mass of
brushwood, at first slowly and then swifter and swifter.

They tried to clutch at the sides of the opening, but in vain.
Everything they grasped gave way--sticks, moss, stones, bushes,
vines.  Nothing could stop that downward course.

The moss was dry and the dust filled their eyes, almost blinding them.

"We are lost!" gasped Bob, and then the dust got into his throat and
he began to cough as though choking.

In the excitement of the moment, Dave's shotgun went off, the charge
passing directly between him and his companion.

After falling about twenty feet, the mass of brushwood became wedged
tight for a moment, and stopped descending.

"Oh!" came from Dave.  "Now we are in a pickle.  How are we to get
out?"

For the moment they scarcely dared to move.

Then Bob took a step forward and the young diver did the same.

Instantly the mass began to sink once more, at first slowly and then
as rapidly as ever.

Down they went--thirty feet, forty, fifty, sixty--a hundred, until
the top of the hole was lost to sight and they found themselves they
knew not where.

Again the brushwood and moss became wedged fast.  But now they did
not dare to move for fear of dislodging it once more.

"We are lost!" came from the engineer.  "We'll never get out of this
alive!"

"Don't give up yet," answered Dave, bravely, yet his heart felt like
a lump of lead in his bosom.

"Where can we be?"

"Down in a mighty deep hole."

"I know.  But is this the bottom?"

"There's no telling.  We might--we are going down again!"

It was true.  They were again descending, but now slowly, as if the
passage below was growing smaller.

"Shall we ever stop!" groaned Dave.

"It's all up with us!" came from Bob.  "We won't be able--gracious!
Water!"

The young engineer was right.

The mass of brushwood had reached the level of some water at the
bottom of the hole.

Down they sank, into this.  First up to their ankles, then to their
knees, then to their waists.

"We shall be drowned!" cried Dave.

"It looks like it," gasped Bob.  "Heaven save us!"

Soon the water was up to their necks and still the stuff under them
continued to sink.

Were they to be drowned like rats in a trap?




CHAPTER IX

A PRISONER UNDERGROUND

"What's to do now?"

The question came from Bob Vilett.

The sinking of the brushwood had ceased, and he and Dave found
themselves in water almost up to their chins, in absolute darkness.

"I'm sure I don't know, Bob," was the young diver's response.  "We
are in a tight box, and no mistake."

"We can't stay here forever."

"True, but if we make a move we may sink deeper than ever, and then
it will be all up with us."

A dead silence of several minutes followed.  Presently both of the
lads grew desperate.

"We'll have to do something, that's certain," Dave began, when of a
sudden the driftwood sank once more, and they found themselves
struggling wildly in the black waters at the bottom of the hole.

They were soon over their heads, and now found a strong current
carrying them they knew not where.  They had hold of each other, but
soon the force of the water wrenched them apart.

Down and down went Dave, and turned over half a dozen times.

He felt as if he must be journeying toward the center of the earth,
when he reached out his hand and struck a series of smooth rocks.

He tried to hold fast, but this was impossible, and in a twinkle he
turned over again, and then his feet struck on something of a sandy
beach.

Hardly knowing what he was doing, he stepped forward, and then found
himself clear of the water.

This set him to running, and on he went until he brought up with much
force against a stone wall, and fell back partly stunned.

His feet lay in the water, but his head was on the sand, and thus he
remained for fully a quarter of an hour, unable to move.

There was a strange ringing in his ears, and when he at last arose
his head ached as if it would split open.

"Oh!" he groaned, and staggered up the sand to the smooth, rocky wall.

Then he fell again, and did not move until half an hour later, when
his head felt somewhat better.

Where was he, and how could he save himself?

These questions were easy to ask, but no answer was at hand, and he
sank down much disheartened.

Then he suddenly roused himself and called loudly:

"Bob!  Bob Vilett!  Where are you?"

Again and again his voice was raised, but only a dismal echo answered
him.

Was his late companion dead?

It was more than likely.

The tears sprang unbidden to the young diver's eyes, but he dashed
them away.

He must save himself, no matter what the cost.

He realized that he had been saved from death by drowning only
because he was used to being under water a long time without taking a
breath.

All divers practice this art, for possible use should anything become
the matter with their diving outfits while at work.

He felt in his clothing and found his waterproof matchbox still safe.

Soon he had a tiny light, and seeing some dry driftwood at hand he
set it on fire.

The blaze threw grotesque shadows on the rocky walls around him, but
revealed nothing to his gaze but those same walls and the silent,
underground stream flowing between them.

He was entombed alive!

Gradually this conviction forced itself upon him, causing him to
shiver as if with the ague.

Again he called out the name of his late companion, and again only
the dull echoes answered him.

He reckoned that he must be at least a hundred yards from the hole
made by the sunken driftwood.

To get back to the hole, therefore, was out of the question.

He thought the matter over for a while, and then, taking up some
driftwood for a torch, walked slowly along the sandy shore of the
black stream.

Presently he came to a bend, and here found that the stream shot
downward, forming an underground waterfall.

"I can't go in that direction," he reasoned.  "I want to go up, not
down."

The stream was less than twelve feet wide, and did not run so swiftly
but what he could cross it without much danger.

Obtaining a fresh firebrand, for the first was now burnt out, he swam
over to the opposite shore and began an investigation on that side.

"Hurrah!"

The exclamation escaped from his lips involuntarily.

The firebrand had dropped from his hand into the stream, leaving him
in darkness.

Looking at the rocks, he had beheld a thin shaft of light striking
down from some opening above.

"An opening!  May it prove a way of escape!"

With a prayer for aid on his lips, Dave began to climb the rocks as
best he could until he reached a hollow ten feet above the stream.
Here the light was stronger, and by applying his eyes to a long,
narrow slit in the rocks he made out a broad cave beyond, the further
end of which was wide open to the sunlight.

But how was he to get into the cave?

The opening was not over six inches wide, too narrow for the passage
of his body.

The rocks were large, weighing several hundreds of pounds apiece.

To move them would take tools, and he had nothing.

Again in a state bordering on despair, he sat down to review his
situation.

At last he leaped up, and clenching his hands, cried loudly:

"I must get out!  I simply must!"

The cry was an inspiration, for, getting on his knees, he felt around
and found that two of the big rocks were unsteady upon their resting
places.

He pulled away at the smaller stones beneath, and soon had them
loosened.

He continued his labors, and presently, with a mighty crash, one of
the rocks slid down into the stream, disappearing beneath the surface
with a splash.

At once the light from beyond shot into the opening.  He was free!

His heart gave a bound of joy, and quickly he scrambled through the
hole and into the cave beyond.

This was a large affair, being at least forty feet wide and high, and
several hundred feet long.

"Now, if only Bob were safe, all would be well," thought the young
diver.

Without waiting to light another torch he began to move toward the
outer opening of the cave.

But before he had gone half the distance he came to a halt with a cry
of dismay.

The cave was crossed by another underground stream, all of twenty
feet wide, and flowing onward with tremendous swiftness.

It came out from under one rocky wall and disappeared under the wall
opposite.

Taking a bit of driftwood, Dave threw it into the water, and it
flashed out of sight instantly.

"I can't swim across that," he thought, dismally.  "To attempt it
would be foolhardy."

Now what was to be done?

He examined the walls carefully.

They were perfectly smooth, thus affording hold for neither foot nor
hand.

"If the stream weren't quite so wide I might jump it," he reasoned.
"But I--somebody is coming!"

He was right; somebody was entering the cave from the outer end.

The newcomers were two men, one dressed in the suit of an American
business man and the other in the garb of a sailor.

"We'll be alone here and can talk the matter over without fear of
interruption," said one of the pair, the man in ordinary clothes.

His voice sounded strangely familiar, and Dave strained his eyes to
catch a better sight of him and of his companion.

Then, astonished beyond measure, the young diver dropped out of sight
behind a rock bordering the underground stream he had been trying to
cross.

The newcomers were Lemuel Hankers, the man who had set sail in the
_Raven_ after the sunken treasure, and Pete Rackley, the rascal who
in Washington had accused Dave of robbing him!




CHAPTER X

DAVE OVERHEARS A PLOT

"They are here for no good purpose!"

Such was the thought which crossed Dave's mind immediately after
making his astonishing discovery.

As much as he wished to be saved from his present direful situation,
he resolved to keep his presence a secret.

These men were his enemies, and by instinct he felt that Pete Rackley
must be Lemuel Hankers' tool.

"I'll wager old Hankers had him try that game on me in Washington,"
thought the young diver.  "It was done so that I couldn't join the
_Swallow_ at San Francisco, and that father might remain behind, too,
to get me out of the scrape."

Presently Lemuel Hankers and Pete Rackley came so close that Dave
could hear all that was said with ease.

"It is a surprise to me that the _Swallow_ stopped here," Lemuel
Hankers was saying.  "Do you think she was following us!"

"Can't say as to that," replied Rackley, puffing away at a short pipe
he was carrying.  "Anyway, she's here.  Now what is your game?  Out
with it."

"The game is that I don't want the Fearlesses to get at the sunken
treasure, Pete."

"I've heard that before, Lemuel."

"You have always been my right-hand man, Pete, and I know I can rely
on you yet, even though you did make a fizzle of that affair in
Washington."

"I didn't know I was being spotted," growled the sailor, for such
Pete Rackley really was.

"My game is that you go aboard of the _Swallow_ and ship with Captain
Broadbeam.  Tell him you are a castaway, and have been here nearly a
year."

"But young Fearless knows me."

"You can dye your face and your hair and he won't recognize you, I am
sure.  In that sailor rig you don't look like the man you were in
Washington in a light suit and a linen shirt."

"That's true, too.  But after I am on the _Swallow_ I don't see what
I can do to keep them from going ahead to where the treasure is."

"I will tell you what to do.  Wait until you are about a day out from
here and then watch your chance and disable the machinery, so that
they will have to put back for repairs.  When the machinery is
repaired, injure the rudder, and that will bring them back again.
Keep that up for about a month, and the treasure will be mine, and if
I get it, you shall have ten thousand dollars in cold cash for your
work."

"It's taking a big risk," answered Pete Rackley, slowly.

"And so is ten thousand dollars a big sum of money, Pete.  It's more
than you'll ever get by working, and you know it."

"That's true, too."

"And if you are sly about it, you'll run very little risk of
detection."

"But how will I get on board of the _Raven_ again?"

"After you have kept the _Swallow_ behind a month you can let her go
and desert, hiding in the woods so that they can't find you.  You can
provide yourself with plenty of food.  As soon as we have the
treasure on board of the _Raven_, I'll come back for you and take you
on board."

"You won't desert me!"

"I will not.  More than that, I'll take Captain Nesik into the secret
with me, and I'll leave behind all of my diamonds and my gold watch
as an evidence of my good faith."

"Leave your boy Bart here for company and I'll take you up, Hankers."

"I would even do that, Pete, but you know well enough Bart won't stay
behind.  He is crazy to get the treasure and crow over the
Fearlesses.  He even says he is going down himself, in that new
diving bell we brought along--just to show that he can work under
water as well as Dave Fearless."

"Then you must leave me all the stuff you can, and you and Captain
Nesik must promise on your bended knees to come back for me.  I
wouldn't be marooned for twice ten thousand dollars."

"It will be all right.  You can--hullo, who is calling?"

A form had appeared at the mouth of the cave.

"Are you in there, dad?" came the cry.

"Yes, Bart," answered Lemuel Hankers.  He turned to Pete Rackley.
"Come, quick!  Do you accept my offer?"

"I do," answered the rascally sailor, and the pair of villains shook
hands.

"What are you up to!" went on Bart Hankers, as he came closer.

"Oh, we were just taking a look around," replied his father,
carelessly.

"Do you know that the _Swallow_ is in this port?" went on Bart, as he
drew closer to the underground stream.

"Yes."

"I wish she was at the bottom of the Pacific, and the Fearlesses with
her."

"You should not be so hard on them," replied Lemuel Hankers,
hypocritically.

At this Pete Rackley gave a harsh laugh.

"You're a good one," he remarked in a low tone.

"Hush; I don't want my son to know too much," whispered Lemuel
Hankers.

By this time Bart Hankers was standing on the edge of the underground
stream.

"Wish I could cross over and see what's on the other shore," he
muttered.

So far Dave had kept silent, drinking in all that was said.

He realized only too well what a plot was going on against his father
and himself, and against the _Swallow_.

"If only I can get free, I'll show them a trick or two," he told
himself.

Suddenly Bart Hankers uttered a cry.

"A snake!  A snake!"

He was right; a long snake had appeared at the top of the underground
stream.

It was a dangerous-looking reptile, eight feet long, and with nasty
green eyes.

Bart Hankers fell back in confusion.

But instead of climbing to the outer bank, the snake crawled out
close to the rock behind which Dave was in hiding.

It was against human nature to remain hidden under the circumstances,
and the young diver leaped up with all rapidity.

At the same time he yelled at the snake, and the reptile, much
startled, dropped back into the stream and was lost to view.

"Dave Fearless!" gasped Bart Hankers, as soon as the danger from the
snake was past.

"That boy!" came from Lemuel Hankers and Pete Rackley in a breath.

"Yes, it is I," answered the young diver, boldly.

"How did you get here?" demanded Lemuel Hankers, much disconcerted.

"Tumbled."

"Tumbled?"

"That is what I said, Lemuel Hankers.  Have you any objection to my
being here?"

"You followed us.  You have been playing the part of a spy!" cried
the rich man.

"How could I have followed you, seeing that I am on this side of the
stream?"

"You leaped over."

"No, he couldn't do that, dad," interposed Bart.  "He must have come
in some other way."

"You overheard our talk?"

"I did."

At this Pete Rackley emitted a low whistle.

"In that case our cake is dough," he muttered.

"Not if I know it," muttered Lemuel Hankers, savagely.  "Do you think
I am to be worsted by a mere boy?"  And he shook his fist at Dave.

All three of the young diver's enemies came to the edge of the stream.

"How did you get where you are?" repeated Lemuel Hankers.

"As I said before, I tumbled."

"You are trying to poke fun at me."

"I was never more serious in my life."

"You think you are smart," put in Bart.

"What I think is none of your business."

"We'll make it our business," burst out Lemuel Hankers, wrathfully.
"Come over here, and come instantly."




CHAPTER XI

FACING A JAGUAR

Dave was surprised.  He had not dreamed that Lemuel Hankers would
carry his highhandedness so openly.

"I cannot come over," he said.

"And why not?"

"I cannot leap the distance."

"Then swim across."

"The current is too strong.  Besides, I have no more wish for your
company than for the company of that snake which just disappeared."

"Boy, you are a--a young scamp!" burst from Lemuel Hankers' lips.

"Thanks, but I don't wish any of your backhanded compliments, Lemuel
Hankers.  I am not half as much of a scamp as you are a villain."

"A villain?"

"That's what I said."

"Don't you dare to call my dad names," put in Bart, shaking his fist
across the stream.

"I overheard your plot," went on Dave, ignoring Bart.  "It's a pretty
piece of business for a gentleman to propose."

At this Lemuel Hankers grew red and then pale.

"You--you know too much, boy," he faltered.  "Come over here, I say.
Or shall I bring you?"

"I don't see how you are going to bring me.  You can't get over the
stream any better than I can."

"It's running very strong, dad," announced Bart, who had been testing
the current with some chips.  "I don't believe anybody can get across
without a long plank.  He must have gotten into the cave from the
other end."

"Then we can get in that way, too," put in Pete Rackley.  "We ought
to make him a prisoner," he added, in a low voice.

"I don't think you will get in," thought Dave.  "If you do, the
chances are you won't come out alive."

A short talk followed, which Dave could not hear.

Then Pete Rackley left the cave on a run, to reappear a few minutes
later with a good-sized tree limb which the storm of a few days
before had brought down.

"Now we'll get him!" cried Rackley, and threw the limb over the
stream.

Dave was much startled.  He knew not what to do, for to retreat was
impossible.

Soon Rackley was over the underground stream, and Lemuel Hankers and
his son followed.

All three ran after the young diver, who retreated to the extreme
rear of the cavern.

Here Rackley caught him by the arm.

"You had better submit quietly," said Rackley.  "If you don't, it
will be the worse for you."

Dave saw at once that resistance was out of the question.

They were three to one, and all armed, while he was unarmed, and
still weak from his tumble and what had followed.

"You have no right to make me a prisoner," he remarked, for the want
of something better to say.

"We'll take the right," said Rackley, with a wicked grin.  "Didn't
expect to see me here, after our little affair in the Washington
hotel, did you?" he added.

"Perhaps you'll get left now, as you did then," retorted Dave.

Rackley produced a rope which he had brought in with the tree limb,
and soon Dave's hands were bound behind him.

"I have an idea," said Lemuel Hankers.  "Why can't we leave him in
this cave until both ships have sailed?"

"Just my notion," answered Rackley.

"You can feed him until the _Raven_ gets back, and he will be kind of
company for you."

"I'll feed him if he behaves himself," growled Pete Rackley.

All three of the others tried their best to "pump" Dave, but could
get nothing out of the young diver regarding his father's plans or
those of Captain Broadbeam.

"You must find out yourself," he answered.

He was made to march to the extreme right of the cave, and here
Rackley fastened him to a sharp rock which jutted from one of the
walls.

"There, I reckon he won't get loose from that in a hurry," said the
rascal, after his job was finished.

Then the three evildoers withdrew to the mouth of the cave, stopping
at the underground stream just long enough to remove the tree limb so
that Dave could not cross the stream even if he did get free.

A quarter of an hour later the others went away from the cave, and
all became as silent as a tomb.

If the young diver had been disheartened before, he was now utterly
cast down.

He was a prisoner of the enemy, and he felt almost certain that Pete
Rackley would desert him and leave him to starve.

No food had been left with him excepting that which was in the
water-soaked pouch that he carried.

And this he could not get at, for his hands were still bound tightly
behind him.

An hour went by, and to him it seemed an age.

His thoughts wandered back to the _Swallow_.  How was his stricken
father getting along, and what did he think of his disappearance?

And what had become of poor Bob Vilett, who had accompanied him on
this ill-fated expedition after game?

"Captain Broadbeam will most likely send out an expedition in search
of us," he reasoned, "but I don't think any of them will come in
here."

But then his hopes brightened a little.

Perhaps if the captain sent out somebody to look for himself and Bob,
that person might discover the _Raven_ in that port.

"If the _Raven_ is discovered, father will feel sure Lemuel Hankers
has had a hand in my disappearance, and he'll take the rascal to task
for it."

Dave did not know that Lemuel Hankers had given strict orders to
Captain Nesik, of the _Raven_, to keep out of sight of the _Swallow_,
and that the _Raven_ was now well hidden in a little cove thickly
surrounded by palms and tropical vines.

In less than two hours after leaving Dave, Lemuel Hankers and his son
rejoined the _Raven_.

"What has become of Pete Rackley?" questioned Captain Nesik.

"He went off by himself," answered Lemuel Hankers.  "To my mind, he
isn't just right in his head."

"Why, what do you mean?"

"He ran around like a crazy man, and broke out into the wildest kind
of singing.  Said he was done with living on a ship, and was going to
become a hermit."

This story was told for the benefit of the crew of the _Raven_.

In private, Lemuel Hankers told Captain Nesik the truth, and before
nightfall the captain went ashore, pretending to look for Rackley.

When he came back he announced that Rackley must be dead, for he had
found his hat at the top of a high cliff overlooking the ocean, and a
part of his jacket on the jagged rocks below.

That night the _Raven_ pulled up anchor and left the vicinity of the
island.  Before morning she was crowding on all steam, steering
straight for the spot where the sunken treasure ship had gone down.

On board of the _Swallow_ there was much anxiety when Dave and the
engineer did not return.

Captain Broadbeam did not deem it advisable to acquaint Amos Fearless
with the true state of affairs at once.

When the old diver asked where Dave was, he was told that his son and
Bob Vilett had determined to stay out until the next day.

In the meantime poor Dave remained a prisoner in the cave.  His wet
clothing gave him something of a chill during the night, and morning
found him sick and hungry, and almost ready to give up in despair.

It was scarcely daylight when Dave heard odd-sounding footsteps
approaching from the outer entrance of the cave.

He strained his eyes and at last made out a large wild animal.

It was a savage-looking jaguar, and had tracked the footsteps of
those who had come to the cave the day before.

Presently the jaguar came to the underground stream.

Here it paused for a moment, then leaped to the other side.

It was now less than fifty yards from where Dave stood, a prisoner.

Suddenly the wild beast lifted its head, stared into the darkness,
and gave a growl of rage.

It had discovered the helpless boy!




CHAPTER XII

WELL-TIMED SHOTS

"I am lost now for sure!"

Such were the words which escaped Dave Fearless' lips as he watched
the approach of the jaguar that had entered the cave and leaped the
underground stream.

The young diver had long since given up trying to loosen the bonds
which held him so tightly to the jagged rocks.  Pete Rackley had done
his villainous work well, and the efforts to get free had only caused
the cords to sink deeply into Dave's wrists and ankles, until now the
blood was flowing freely from those members.

And it was this blood which the wild beast of the island forest had
scented!

The growl of the jaguar echoed and re-echoed throughout the lonely
cave, causing Dave to shiver as with the ague.

It did indeed look as if the young diver's last hour on earth had
come.

"Hi, go away!" he cried, frantically.  "Go away!  Scat!"

The cries caused the jaguar to pause while yet fifty feet from the
youth.

It had never before attacked a human being, and the new experience
caused it to proceed with caution.

But now it advanced again, crouching low on the cavern floor, its two
eyes glowing like balls of fire in the semi-darkness of the retreat.

Nearer and nearer came the beast, until Dave imagined he could feel
the hot breath of the jaguar upon his cheek.  Then the tail of the
animal began to oscillate slowly, showing that the jaguar was
preparing to make a leap.

Bang! bang!

Almost deafening was the double report of a repeating rifle as it
rang throughout the cave.  At the shots the jaguar leaped high in the
air, turned over several times, and then stretched itself in a
convulsive death shudder.

Dave could scarcely believe his eyes and ears.  Who had thus
unexpectedly come to his deliverance?

"Bob!"  The cry was little short of a scream.  "Where in the world
did you come from?"

"From the bowels of the earth, I reckon," was the reply, as the young
engineer of the _Swallow_ ran forward.  "Is the beast dead?" he went
on, as he halted at the outer edge of the underground stream.

"I guess he is," answered Dave, watching the jaguar for a moment.
"You are a good shot."

"I knew I had to kill him, or it would be all up with you, Dave.  But
how came you to be bound to yonder rock?"

"It's a long story.  Take care of that stream, or you'll go
underground again.  You'll have to get a tree limb, or something,
before you can come over.  I think you'll find a tree limb at the
mouth of the cave."

Without delay Bob Vilett ran out of the cave again, to return in a
few minutes with the very tree limb Pete Rackley had used for
crossing the stream.

Soon the young engineer was at Dave's side, and a slash or two of a
pocket-knife set the young diver free.

Then both lost no time in quitting the cave.

Sitting down near the entrance, each told his story, to which the
other listened with close attention.

Bob Vilett had lost his senses after going down into the hole, and
had recovered, to find himself resting on a ledge in another cave,
not far from the one Dave was occupying.

In trying to get out he had lost his way, and had at last emerged in
the middle of a tiny valley choked with brush, vines, and other
tropical growth.

He had wandered around until chance had brought him to the cave where
Dave was a prisoner, and he had been astonished beyond measure to
hear his friend calling loudly.

"It was a lucky thing that I retained my rifle, and that the water
didn't hurt the cartridges," concluded Bob.  "Had it been otherwise,
the jig would have been up with you."

"That's true, Bob, and I shan't forget what you have done for me,"
returned Dave, warmly.

"Where have the rascals gone?"

"I don't know.  Probably they have carried out the plot they
mentioned while here."

"Then the _Raven_ has sailed."

"But what of the _Swallow_?  Surely they wouldn't sail without us."

"I don't think they would.  We must hunt her up without delay."

"I must have something to eat first.  I am as hungry as--as that
jaguar was."

"Hurrah!  I have it.  Let's broil ourselves a jaguar steak, just for
the novelty."

To this Dave instantly agreed, and returning to the cave, they
brought the beast forth and Bob proceeded to cut him up.

The steak was soon broiling over a fire which Dave kindled, and the
smell proved more than appetizing.

The jaguar meat was tough and not of an extra fine flavor, yet they
were tremendously hungry, and that made them less critical than
otherwise.

In less than an hour the dinner was over, and after getting a drink
and a wash-up, both proceeded on their way.

It was warm outside of the cave, so they did not suffer much
inconvenience because of their wet clothing.

"Now to find our way back to the _Swallow_, and with all speed," said
Dave.  "Which do you suppose is the right direction?"

"That way," and Bob pointed with his hand.

"And I was thinking it was in that direction," and Dave pointed at
right angles to the other course.

Then both laughed.

"We can't both be right," said Bob.

"Let us split the difference and take a course between the two.  Then
we probably won't go far wrong, Bob."

"Right you are."

On they went, into the valley which Bob had traversed, and then up
the line of hills where they had shot the goats just after coming
ashore.

But now they found themselves confronted by a deep ravine, partly
choked with brush and vines.

"How are we going to get across that, Dave!"

"We'll have to walk along the bank until we reach some
crossing-place," answered the young diver.  "I am not going to risk a
tumble by taking a leap."

"Nor I.  I have had tumbles enough to last me a lifetime," and the
young engineer shook his head dubiously.

On they went, the way growing more perilous every moment.  They were
at the edge of a forest, and the top of the ravine was lined with
loose rocks.

Suddenly Bob, having made a leap from one rock to another, went down
in a heap and gave a loud cry of pain.

"My foot!  My foot!"

"What's the matter?"

"I've caught my foot under the rock!"

Dave immediately hastened forward, and saw that his chum was indeed
fast.

The foot was wedged in a crevice, and could not be budged until Dave
rolled the rock away by main force.

Then Bob grated his teeth and gave a deep groan.

"My ankle!  It must be broken!  Oh, Dave!"

And with another moan he fell back in a faint.

If Dave had been alarmed before, he was doubly so now, and he
scarcely knew what to do.  He remembered passing a pool of water a
distance back, and he ran to this, filling the water bottle Bob had
been carrying.

The water revived the young engineer somewhat, and in the meantime
Dave cut loose his shoe.  He found the injured ankle much discolored,
and swelling rapidly.  He bathed it, and this gave some relief, until
the pain gave way to a stiff numbness.

"Now I am in a pickle," groaned Bob.  "Did ever anybody run up
against such luck before?"

"Better not try to stand yet," replied Dave.

"Stand?  Why, the pain would go to my very heart if I tried it!"  And
poor Bob gave another groan.

Dave walked back and got more water, and after another bath the
sprained ankle was bound up in some crushed leaves and some linen
torn from one of the youth's shirtsleeves.  Then they made themselves
as comfortable as possible on the rocks, and began to talk over the
new turn of affairs.

"Do you think I had better go on alone?" questioned Dave.

"I don't know.  Somehow, I don't think we ought to separate."

"I agree, and yet we ought to try to reach the _Swallow_ as soon as
possible."

"That's so, too."

"Supposing I try to get over the ravine and to the top of the hill?
I won't get out of rifle shot, and it may be I'll be able to spot our
ship from the hilltop."

"All right, go ahead.  But don't wander too far, or--gracious, look!"

He broke off short and pointed to a tree growing close at hand.

The leaves of the tree had parted slowly, and now from between them
appeared the hideous head and shoulders of a monstrous gorilla!  The
gorilla's eyes were bent upon both boys, and the beast looked as if
he meant immediate mischief!




CHAPTER XIII

SURROUNDED BY SAVAGES

"He's coming down on us, Bob!"

"Jump and save yourself, Dave!"

Crack! bang!

The cries and shots were uttered almost at the same time, and the air
was instantly filled with smoke, followed by an unearthly squeal from
the gorilla, who instantly disappeared from view.

But the beast was not seriously wounded, for the rifle balls had
merely nipped his paw and his shoulder, and he was in a terrible rage.

"Is he dead, Bob?"

"Beckon not, for I can hear him climbing through the tree."

"We ought to get away from here, for there may be more of the
gorillas about."

"That's true.  But I can't walk."

"I'll carry you."

And having allowed Bob to slip some extra cartridges into the
repeating rifle, Dave took his friend up in his arms.

He was just about to start down the ravine when the gorilla showed
himself a second time.

He had armed himself with half-green cocoanuts, and taking aim, he
let fly at Dave's head.

"Dodge!" yelled Bob, and the cry came none too soon, for the missile
brushed over the top of the young diver's head.  Then came several
more cocoanuts, and Bob was struck in the side.

He could not stand the fusillade, and watching his chance, discharged
the rifle again.

He only fired one shot, but this found its way through the gorilla's
stomach, and mortally wounded the creature.

Down dropped the cocoanuts, one at a time.  Then the animal's hold
relaxed, and he too came down, almost at the feet of the youths.

The distorted, half-human face was terrible to look upon, and both
Dave and Bob turned quickly away.

"I never want to see another gorilla," shuddered Dave.

"And I never want to shoot one," responded Bob.

Along the ravine went the young diver, carrying his friend upon his
shoulder.

Two hundred feet of the rough way was covered when they reached a
spot where the ravine might be crossed with ease.

Over they went, and then Dave set down his burden and took a
well-earned rest.

By this time night was coming on, and still they were at least half a
mile from the sea-coast.

"We won't gain the _Swallow_ to-day," murmured the young diver,
ruefully.

"And perhaps we won't gain the ship at all," responded the young
engineer.

As is usual in the tropics, night came on suddenly.  The sun went
down behind the trees and the rim of the distant ocean, and soon the
stars shone out clearly and beautifully.

All was quiet save for the sounds of the night birds in the thicket
behind them.

To keep off the wild animals they built a large camp fire, and at
this cooked some of the meat they had brought along from the cave.

Bob's ankle was cared for several times during the evening, and the
youth declared that it now felt much better.

They took turns watching during the night, yet little came to disturb
them.  Once Dave heard a wild animal approaching and brought up the
rifle, ready to fire on the instant.  But the fire made the beast
keep his distance, and he finally slunk away without showing himself.

Both boys were up at daybreak, and Bob declared that he would try to
walk upon his foot, at least as far as the seacoast.

A quarter of an hour's climb took them to the top of the hills, and
here they took a good look at the beach and the ocean spread out
before them.

Not a sign of the _Swallow_ was to be seen anywhere.

This was disheartening, and Dave's heart sank.

Were they really deserted?

"We can't see all of the beach from here," said Bob, encouragingly.
"See, yonder patch of wood hides a good stretch from view.  The
_Swallow_ may be behind that.  And even if she has gone off, remember
that Pete Rackley was to disable her so that she would have to put
back for repairs."

"And so far as he was concerned, I might have starved in the
meantime," added Dave, bitterly.

"Yes.  He must be a thorough rascal."

"He is.  But no worse than Lemuel Hankers, to my way of thinking,
Bob."

"Right you are."

They had to be careful in descending the side of the hill, for here
were many treacherous stones, and neither wished to risk another
sprained ankle.

But at last they stood at the bottom, with the ocean's shore but half
a dozen rods away.

The foam from the breakers could be seen distinctly through the tall
palms, and with their hearts beating rapidly they hurried forward to
where a long stretch of dazzling sand stood as a barrier between the
woodland and the water.

"No ship here," said Dave, soberly.

"This is not the spot where the _Swallow_ cast anchor, Dave.  The
question is, was that cove north or south of here?"

"North, I should say."

"This time I agree with you.  Come, walking along the beach will be
easy enough."

And so it proved, although the fierce rays of the sun soon made both
more than willing to seek the shade of the overhanging palms and
other tropical trees which lined the beach.

At a distance ahead the beach curved, and as they approached this
spot they heard a sudden wild shouting, combined with a flapping,
which was altogether new to their ears.

"Savages, I'll bet a dollar!" cried Bob.  "We had better go into
hiding!"

"But what is that other noise?" queried Dave.

"I can't imagine.  But come, don't stay here."

Both started for the forest, but the movement came too late.

From around the curve of the beach appeared half a dozen wild savages
of the South Sea type, and the two youths were discovered.

"Hi ki werra!" shouted one of the savages.  He was armed with a bow
and arrows, and quickly leveled an arrow at Dave, who was nearest.

"Hi ki werra!" repeated the other savages, and they, too, leveled
their arrows.  "The white demons!  The white demons!"

"We are in for it now!" whispered Dave.  "Give them a shot from the
rifle!"

"No, that would only make them mad," replied the young engineer.
Nevertheless, he pointed the rifle at the head of the nearest native.

The effect was magical, for the savage immediately threw up both
hands and began to yell like a madman.

He had once seen a gun go off and a goat shot thereby, and he
imagined the "white demon" was going to slay him likewise.

The other savages also came to a halt, and all lowered their arrows.

Then Bob lowered the rifle.

A long pause on both sides followed.

The natives did not know what to do, and the youths were in a similar
predicament.

One of the savages began to jabber away in his native tongue, but
neither Dave nor Bob understood a word of what was said.

"This is all Greek to me!" shouted Dave.  "Talk English."

"Englees!" repeated the savage, and shook his head.  He understood
that single word, but no more.

"We want to be left alone," put in Bob.  "If you don't leave us
alone, somebody will get hurt."

"Englees," repeated the native.  Then, struck by a sudden
inspiration, he advanced a few feet, threw down his bow and arrows,
and held out his hands.

"He wants to be friendly, evidently," observed Bob.

"If it isn't a trick," answered the young diver.  "I must say I don't
like their looks."

"No more do I; but what are we to do, retreat?"

"Rather than fall into the hands of cannibals I'd go back over the
hills to the cave."

The native was coming closer, and he tried to put as pleasant a look
on his face as possible.

But the effort was a failure, for he was both crafty and cruel, and
this disposition shone in every line of his reddish-black features.

"Go back!" shouted Bob, and raised the rifle again.

Scarcely had he spoken when there came a shout from the rear, and
looking behind them, the two youths found that they were surrounded!




CHAPTER XIV

ANOTHER CAPTURE

"We are in for it now, Dave!"

"Right you are, Bob.  What shall we do, fight?"

"It would be useless, for they outnumber us ten to one."

And so speaking, Bob lowered the rifle once more.

It was well he did so, otherwise several arrows would have been sent
whizzing through his body.

In a few seconds the natives had closed in on them and taken the
rifle and other things from them.

Then they were bound with thongs and carted up the beach.

During all this time the thrashing on the beach ahead had continued,
and now the boys saw what caused it.

In some unaccountable manner a whale had become cast up by the
breakers.

He was caught in some brushwood and a fallen tree, but was doing his
best to get back into his native element.

The savages considered the whale a great find, and were doing all in
their power to make him their prisoner and kill him.

Scores of arrows had been shot into the huge, blubbery body, and the
beach was dyed crimson with the blood of the marine monster.

Yet he thrashed around lively, and one native who went too near was
knocked senseless by a blow from the whale's tail.

The fighting with arrows went on for a quarter of an hour longer, and
in the meantime a long rope, made of vines and as tough as rawhide,
was passed around the monster and made fast to a tree back of the
beach.

The whale fought to the last, but gradually its struggles grew less
and less, and finally ceased altogether.

Then arose a loud shouting, and rushing in, the savages began to dig
at the body with their long knives and their war hatchets.

Some of the blubber they ate raw, much to the disgust of the
prisoners, who found themselves forced to look on.

"They are worse than Esquimaux," muttered Dave.  "Ugh! it makes me
sick at the stomach."

"I wonder what they intend to do with us?"

"There is no telling.  But I guess they won't eat us so long as the
whale meat lasts.  They seem to relish that immensely."

The boys passed a dismal half-hour, and during that time the savages
cut up the whale and carted the meat off in huge chunks.

Then a savage who was evidently a chief came up and ordered some of
his followers to bring Dave and Bob along.

Still bound, the two chums were picked up by two savages, who seemed
to count their weight as nothing.

A journey lasting over an hour followed, straight into the interior
of the island.

At the end of the inland lake previously mentioned, the band of
savages halted.

Bob and Dave were tied fast to two trees, and then the natives
proceeded to hold a council of war.

They wished to question the lads, but not one of them could speak
English.

Presently a loud chanting was heard, and from a distance the boys saw
more savages approaching.

There were three men and half a dozen women.

There was likewise another man, but he was white, even though his
face had evidently been stained a reddish-brown color.

This man wore an attire which was comical in the extreme.

The suit consisted of a sailor's shirt and trousers, the latter cut
off at the knees, and a shiny stovepipe hat, the band filled with
feathers.

"Great Scott!" burst from Dave.  "Look at that scarecrow!"

As soon as the man in the silk hat appeared all of the natives began
bowing and chanting in chorus, and this they kept up until the
strange one lifted his hands and let out a peculiar yell.

Then the stranger caught sight of the boys and ran up to them.

"Be th' eyes av Saint Patrick!" he cried, in a rich Irish brogue.
"Who are ye, now; tell me that!"

"An Irishman!" ejaculated Dave, fervently.  "Thank Heaven, one man
can talk United States."

"Who are you?" demanded Bob.

At this the Irishman took off the stovepipe, swung it into the air,
and made them a profound bow.

"Sure, I am Pat Stoodles, grand muck-a-muck av this wild tribe av
haythins, castaway sailor from th' bark _Emma D._, high lord av the
island, and second cousin av the royal Emperor of Turkey, ha, ha!"

And he laughed long and loud, and then shook hands.

"Are you putting this on for the natives' benefit?" questioned Bob.
"If you are, let me say they don't understand a word."

At once a frown crossed Pat Stoodles' face.

He was indeed a castaway, and a solitary life of several years had
partly turned his brain.

When the savages had found him he had acted so strangely that they
had fancied he was some inhabitant of the infernal region.  At first
they had wanted nothing to do with him, but they had ended by making
him something of a chief.  In their own language they called him the
fun-making high lord.

Pat Stoodles listened to their talk with interest, but shook his head
when they mentioned the _Swallow_.

"You are afther bein' mistaken about th' ship," he said.  "No ship
comes here.  What looks loike a ship is a vision in th' heavens,
nothin' more!"  And he clenched his fists.  He had looked so long for
a sail when alone that the subject had turned his brain.

"Poor chap!" said Bob, in an undertone, "I don't believe he can help
us much."

"Perhaps he can save our lives."  Our hero turned to the Irishman.
"What will these natives do with us?"

"Sure an' I don't know.  Maybe they'll be afther makin' princes av
ye, me bould b'ys!"

"We would like our liberty."

Pat Stoodles shrugged his shoulders.

"Ye can gain yer liberty on but wan night av the month," he said.
"That is whin th' moon is full an' they be afther havin' the feast av
the skulls."

They did not know if he was in earnest, or if the talk was that of a
crazy man.

Having spoken with them for some time, Pat Stoodles turned to the
natives and began to jabber at them.

Evidently he had learned much of their language, for they listened
attentively.

Then they brought the boys something to eat and to drink, and tried
to make them otherwise comfortable.

But they would allow neither of them his liberty.

Night came and went, and still the chums remained prisoners of the
savages.

Pat Stoodles spoke to them a long while in the morning, and at last
appeared to believe their story of a ship.

"I will be afther lookin' fer her," he said.  "But it's more likely a
drame.  I used to be afther dramin' loike that meself."  And then he
disappeared.

The morning slipped by, and the boys were thoroughly miserable.  At
first the natives left them alone, but presently they came on one
after another and pulled their noses, their ears, and their hair.
One savage doused them with dirty water from the lake, and all
laughed loudly at the trick.

Noon had come and gone, when of a sudden several shots sounded in the
distance.

The shots were followed by a loud yelling of natives, and at once
those surrounding Dave and Bob ran off to learn the cause of the
conflict.

"Something is up!" cried Dave.  "What can it mean?"

"I reckon we'll soon learn," answered the young engineer.

A few more shots followed, and soon after all became quiet, the
stillness lasting for over an hour.

Then a chanting was heard, and a body of savages appeared, having in
their midst two prisoners.

"Look!" cried Dave.  "Captain Broadbeam and Doctor Barrell!  Is it
possible!"

He was right.  The newly made prisoners were the captain and the
doctor, who had been surprised while on a second hunt for the missing
ones.




CHAPTER XV

A DOOR OF WATER

"Dave Fearless!  And Bob Vilett!  Thank Heaven you are not dead!"

So spoke Captain Broadbeam as his eyes rested upon the two youthful
prisoners of the savages.

The captain's clothing was torn, and there were marks of blood upon
his face, showing that he had not submitted without a struggle.
Indeed, both the captain of the _Swallow_ and Doctor Barrell had
fought to the bitter end.

"We have been hunting everywhere for you," put in the doctor.  "Some
thought you dead, but we were not willing to believe it."

"Did a man named Pete Rackley come to the _Swallow_?" questioned
Dave, quickly.

"I know nothing of a man of that name," answered the captain, "but
there came to us a poor and forlorn castaway, who said he had been
alone on this island for nearly two years."

"Please describe him," said Bob.

The captain did so.  Both Dave and Bob gave a groan.

"He is a fraud!" burst out the young diver.

"And he will wreck the _Swallow_ before we can get back to her,"
added Bob.

Of course, both Captain Broadbeam and Doctor Barrell were astonished
at these remarks.

"I don't understand," said the master of the ship.

As quickly as he could Dave explained the plot which had been hatched
out by Lemuel Hankers and which Rackley, his tool, was to carry out.

"It is dastardly!" cried both the captain and the doctor.

"And to think I took him on board, gave him new clothing, and
promised him pay until we should get back to the States," added the
captain.

"Even now he may be wrecking my beautiful engine!" groaned Bob.  "Oh,
if only I had the rascal by the neck!"

The savages now interrupted the talk by separating the prisoners,
tying each to a tree some distance from the others.

Pat Stoodles was nowhere to be seen, for he had gone off in an
entirely different direction from that taken by the natives.

Slowly the day dragged by until night was at hand.  The natives were
busy preparing the meat taken from the whale, and for the time being
paid but scant attention to the prisoners.

"We must escape to-night," thought Dave.

Yet how was it to be accomplished?

Although the natives took little notice of them, one of the younger
men of the tribe had been set on guard, to see that none of them
broke his bonds.

At last darkness settled down on the encampment.  At first the fire
blazed brightly, but at last it died down, leaving the prisoners in
gloom.

The savages gathered close to the campfire, the women by themselves,
and were soon wrapped in slumber.

One native remained on guard, seated on a fallen tree.

Suddenly a form appeared in the midst of the prisoners.

It was Pat Stoodles, but so transformed that Dave scarcely recognized
the half-witted Irish castaway.

Stoodles was dressed in a suit of skins, and on his head rested a
crown made of horn, set with peacock feathers.

In his hand the Irishman carried a long knife.

"I am the King of the Island Windjammers!" he cried, in a low tone.
"I am sent to free the world!  Avaunt, ye ghosts of ships!  Begone,
ye rats of my brain!  Ha! and how is that, my bonnie b'y!  An' that!
An' that!"

Rambling on in this fashion, he quickly cut the ropes which held Dave
and Bob.  Then he turned to Captain Broadbeam and of a sudden he
stopped with mouth wide open.

"Captain Broadbeam, or is it another av thim drames?" he gasped.

"Pat Stoodles!" cried the captain.  "And so you are the king of these
savages.  Release me at once!"

"I will!  I will!" answered Stoodles, and cut the bonds, and also
those of the doctor.

All this time the savage on guard was looking on in silence, for he
dared not interfere with the doings of Stoodles.  Yet he grew uneasy
when he saw all the prisoners liberated and saw the Irishman shake
Captain Broadbeam by the hand.  He gave a sudden and shrill cry.

Quick as a flash Stoodles turned upon him.

"That's fer ye!" roared the Irishman, and knocked him flat with a
blow of his fist.

"Quick, we must get away!" cried Dave.  "See, all of the savages are
awake!"

He spoke the truth, and the others felt that they must fly on the
instant or it would be too late.

"To the woods!" cried the doctor.  "Perhaps we can hide!"

"I will show ye a spot!" put in Stoodles.  "I have a cave all me own
where they won't be afther findin' ye!"

He led the way and the others followed, through the brush and up a
hill back of the lake upon which the encampment was located.

It was a crooked and dangerous path, yet by keeping close to Stoodles
they avoided many a nasty pitfall.

Soon they heard the savages on their trail.  At first they were some
distance off, but gradually they grew closer and closer.

"I can't go much further!" gasped poor Bob.  "My ankle pains me
something awful!"

"Don't ye be afther givin' up!" said Pat Stoodles.  "We'll soon be at
me castle, which all the savages on the island can't conquer."

They were now passing along the bed of a small stream which flowed
into the lake.  Presently before them arose a beautiful waterfall,
twenty feet high and eight or nine feet broad.

"That's the dure av me castle," announced Stoodles.  "Make a quick
sthep inside an' ye'll not git overly wet."

With this he dove straight into the waterfall and disappeared from
view.

"Gracious!  What does that mean?" came from Dave.

"He is mad and has committed suicide," muttered the doctor.

"Perhaps not," came from Bob.  "That waterfall may conceal the
entrance to a cave."

"Hurrah!  I believe you are right," answered Dave.  "And I am for
finding out," and he took a step forward.

But the captain caught the young diver by the shoulder.

"Don't be rash, lad.  It may cost you your life."

Scarcely had Captain Broadbeam spoken when Stoodles reappeared
through the falling sheet of water.

"Come on!" he cried.  "Don't be afraid.  The futtin' is safe enough,"
and again he disappeared.

None of the others hesitated any longer.  Dave went first, holding
his breath as he took the plunge.  To his surprise the falling body
of water was less than four inches thick, and in a moment he found
himself on a smooth, rocky floor.

"That's the greatest yet!" muttered Bob, when all were safe in the
cave under the upper stream.  "Don't the savages know of this?" he
asked of the Irishman.

"Sure not.  Once they followed me up the strame an' I scared the wits
out av thim, talkin' to thim from the wathers!"  And Pat Stoodles
laughed loudly, a laugh that echoed and re-echoed throughout the
cavern.

It was pitch-dark, but soon they had a light, and Stoodles brought
forth a torch.

Then he led the way to a branch of the cave, on higher ground.

Here the flooring and walls were perfectly dry, and here the castaway
had something of a comfortable home, with a rude table, a bench, a
sea chest, and a cupboard with dishes and other household articles.

In one corner of the cave was a rough fireplace, the smoke of a fire
going up through half a dozen small cracks.

It was easy to see that the castaway had not always been
simple-minded.

"I knew him years ago quite well," said Captain Broadbeam.  "He once
sailed under me.  He is suffering for the want of companionship.
Many a castaway, you know, has gone stark mad through loneliness.
The savages were really no company for him."

"Do you think he will get over it?" asked Dave.

"I think he will," put in the doctor.  "I have seen such cases
before.  Sometimes the recovery is quite rapid, when the castaway
gets back among his own people."

Leaving the crowd seated around a comfortable fire, in order to dry
their clothing before going to sleep, Pat Stoodles returned to the
entrance of the cave.

He was gone the best part of half an hour, when he returned in
considerable excitement.

"The haythins have tracked us to the waterfall!" he whispered.  "An'
wan av thim--Chief Walru--is thinkin' av thryin' to git behind th'
water into the cave!"




CHAPTER XVI

THE ESCAPE TO THE COAST

The announcement that the savages were trying to get into the cave
under the waterfall filled Dave and his friends with new alarm.

"You are sure of this, Stoodles?" questioned Captain Broadbeam, as he
leaped to his feet.

"I am," was the Irishman's answer.

"We ought to be able to hold them back," put in the doctor.  "Can't
we hurl them into the stream as fast as they appear?"

"That's the talk," came from Bob.  "Let us line up just this side of
the waterfall."

"Perhaps we can scare them," suggested Dave.  "I know all savages are
very superstitious."

All made their way to the edge of the waterfall, and Pat Stoodles
showed them a crack in the rocks, at the side of the falls.

Here they could see the savages lined up outside, with Chief Walru at
their head.

Several were talking excitedly, and the chief was wading in the water
at the very foot of the falls.

Now the chief took up a rock and hurled it into the waterfall.

It whizzed past Doctor Barrell and struck the flooring some distance
to the rear of the cave.

Dave saw the movement, and of a sudden a strange idea came into his
head.

He would scare the savages if he could.

Filling his lungs with air, he let out a most blood-curdling scream,
followed by a series of wild and unearthly groans and a long hiss.

The savages were thunderstruck, and those on the bank of the stream
took to their heels with all possible speed, while Chief Walru
tumbled backward and then began to scramble over the rocks for dear
life.

Again Dave let out a scream, and then groans which were more dreadful
than the others.

In less than three minutes not a savage was to be seen.

"They have gone!" said Bob.

"If only they don't come back," returned Captain Broadbeam.

"I have an idea," said the young diver.  "Why can't we pile up some
stones in front of that opening?  Then if the savages try to get
through the waterfall they will get badly left."

"That's the talk!" came from Bob.  "Are there stones handy, Stoodles?"

"Sure, plinty of thim."

And the Irishman showed the way to where lay a quantity of stones,
large and small.

With the doctor holding a torch to light them, all hands began to
haul stones to the opening.  Those that were flat were placed on the
bottom and soon the opening was filled up to within two feet of the
top.  Other stones were piled up behind, so that those in front might
not be shoved back.

"Now we are safe--at least for the time being," said Captain
Broadbeam.  "But the next question is, how are we to escape and get
on board of the _Swallow_?"

"Isn't there another exit from the cave?" asked the doctor.

Pat Stoodles shook his head.

"If there is, I never was afther findin' wan," he remarked.

All were utterly worn out by their adventures and by the work on the
stone wall, and glad enough to rest.

Yet each took his turn at a two hours' watch, so that they might not
be surprised.

But the savages did not come back during the night, nor did they see
anything of the natives during the morning.

Pat Stoodles had provisions stored in the cave and they made a hearty
breakfast, after which all felt decidedly better.

From the Irishman, who seemed to be growing clearer in his mind every
hour, they learned that they were about half a mile from the seacoast.

The way to the shore lay through a thick jungle, with here and there
a treacherous swamp.

With extreme caution they left the cave and started up the stream and
into the jungle.

They were constantly on the lookout for the savages, but a quarter of
a mile was covered and not a native showed himself.

"Dave scared them for fair," said Bob.  "Perhaps they have left the
island altogether."

"Don't be afther foolin' yerself," answered Pat Stoodles.  "Thim
haythins is wust whin they are sthill."

In this remark the Irishman was correct, for hardly had he spoken
when an arrow whizzed through the air and pierced Doctor Barrell's
hat.

"They are after us!" cried several in chorus.

"We must run fer it!" came from Stoodles.  "Folly me, an' be amazin'
quick about it, too," and away he leaped at top speed.

Nobody needed a second warning, and all kept as close to the
Irishman's heels as possible.  He led them into a thicket of vines
and underwood.  In the meantime several more arrows came flying
through the air, and Dave was struck in the shoulder.

"I am hit!" he murmured, and stopped short.

"Is it bad?" asked Captain Broadbeam, who was close to him.

"I--I guess not.  But it doesn't feel very good," and the young diver
gave a gasp for breath.

As quickly as he could the captain extracted the arrow, and when they
were in the thicket the wound was bound up.  It was not serious, but
it gave Dave a stiff side for several days afterward.

Once the thicket was gained, Pat Stoodles did not halt, but led the
way deeper and deeper into the jungle.  Some rocks were passed and
then they came out on what looked like the edge of a moss-covered
opening.

"Stop!" yelled the Irishman at Bob, who was going ahead.  "Stop, if
ye value yer loife!"

"What's wrong now?" asked the young engineer.

"That spot is afther bein' worse nor the bogs av ould Ireland,"
explained Pat Stoodles.  "It's as sticky as glue.  Perhaps we can
lead the savages into it."

He led the way around the opening and all followed, pausing on the
opposite side.

At that moment the body of natives appeared, and, seeing the whites,
broke into a triumphant yell.

A shower of arrows were sent forth, but the whites ran for the
shelter of the nearest trees and nobody was struck.

Then out into the opening rushed the savages, still yelling and
brandishing their bows and arrows.

But they did not go far.

Less than a rod of the opening was passed when they began to sink
into the black ooze beneath the green moss.

They tried to turn back, but it was in vain.

From their ankles they sank to their knees, and then to their waists.

Their war cries changed to shrieks of alarm and then to frantic
appeals to their comrades to help them.

Over a dozen were caught in the glue-like bog, and every one of the
number was in danger of losing his life.

The whites were totally forgotten, and the others, coming up, turned
their whole attention to rescuing those in such dire peril.

Pat Stoodles laughed loud and long over the success of his ruse.

"Now it's good-by to ye!" he cried, shaking his fist at the natives.
"I'm no more the grand muck-a-muck, but a dacent Irish sailor come
back to his siven senses."

Again he led the way through the jungle, striking out directly for
the ocean shore.

To force their way through the tropical growth was not easy, and made
every one of the party pant for breath.

They stirred up many tropical birds and once came upon a colony of
monkeys, who fled, shrieking and chattering, in all directions.

At last they could plainly hear the booming of the surf.

"The ocean!" cried Dave.

"If only we come in sight of the _Swallow_!" put in Bob.

"Perhaps we had better be careful before we show ourselves," remarked
Captain, Broadbeam.  "There may be natives on the beach."

The matter was talked over, and it was decided that Stoodles and the
captain should go forward to investigate.

The pair were gone less than ten minutes when Captain Broadbeam came
running back in excitement.

"The _Swallow_ is not in sight," he said.  "But another ship is."

"Another ship?" queried Dave, and then seeing a queer look on the
captain's face, he added: "You don't mean the _Raven_?"

"Yes, I do mean the _Raven_!" was the answer, which filled the others
with dismay.




CHAPTER XVII

A DASH FOR A ROWBOAT

The _Raven_ and not the _Swallow_ was in sight!

The several members of the party looked at each other questioningly.

What was to be done now?

"I'm sure I'm not going to ask Lemuel Hankers for help," said Dave,
decidedly.  "I'd rather put up with the savages."

"No! no!  That would be foolish," put in Doctor Barrell.  "Why, if
those natives got hold of us now they would kill us on the spot."

"An' be afther eatin' ye in the bargain," added Pat Stoodles.

"But to go aboard the enemy's ship!" protested the young diver.

"They wouldn't dare to kill us," said Captain Broadbeam.

"They will have to transfer us to our own vessel," said the doctor.

While they were discussing the situation, Stoodles went back to learn
what the savages were doing.

Presently he ran up with the information that the natives had divided
into two parties, one to help those in the morass and the other to
continue the pursuit of the whites.

"An' the second party is afther comin' up fast," he concluded.  "Ye
must run fer it or invite capture."

"Come, we will join the _Raven_ and trust to luck," said Captain
Broadbeam.  And so it was decided, although against Dave's wishes.

Soon they were out on the beach and running for the cove where the
_Raven_ lay at anchor.

The ship had gone into hiding to escape being discovered by those on
board the _Swallow_.

Lemuel Hankers felt certain that Pete Rackley would so disable
Captain Broadbeam's craft that the _Swallow_ would never reach the
spot where the sunken treasure lay, at the bottom of the Pacific.

Lemuel Hankers was on deck with his son when the party came into
sight of the ship.

He gazed intently at the group of running persons who were waving
their hands, frantically, toward the ship.

"Give me a glass!" he cried, quickly.

The powerful marine glass belonging to Captain Nesik was handed to
him.

He gave one look, then muttered an imprecation not to be placed upon
these pages.

"Who is it?" questioned Bart.

"Dave Fearless, Captain Broadbeam and some others, probably men from
the _Swallow_!"

"What!" ejaculated the youth.  "And look, they act as if they wanted
to board our ship!"

"They must have learned of Pete Rackley's doings!" burst from Lemuel
Hankers' lips, and his face grew deadly pale.

"Then our jig is up, dad."

"They wish to make trouble!" groaned the rich man.

"I wouldn't let them on board," put in Bart, quickly.  "Let us
pretend not to see them and sail away."

"We'll do it," answered the father.

He ran to where Captain Nesik stood, and gave the necessary order.

The anchor was hove apeak in double-quick order, and the command was
passed to the engine room to back the _Raven_, full speed.

Fortunately for the evildoers, steam was up, and in less than half a
minute the _Raven_ had left the cove and was moving swiftly out into
the Pacific Ocean.

Those on shore could scarcely believe their eyes.

"She is sailing away!" burst from Captain Broadbeam.

"They do not intend to take us on board!" put in Doctor Barrell.

"But do they know who we are?" questioned Bob.

"They must know," said Dave.  "Remember, they have powerful glasses
on board.  Perhaps they spotted us as soon as we came into sight."

"It would please them, I suppose, to have the savages kill us," went
on the captain.  "I wouldn't have believed it before, but I do
now--since you have told me what this Pete Rackley was to do."

In bitter disappointment the crowd ran down to the very edge of the
cove, Pat Stoodles at their heels.

They saw a number of persons standing on the stern deck of the
_Raven_, but could distinguish no faces.

In less than half an hour the ship was far out to sea.

While the party on the beach was watching the receding ship, Stoodles
uttered a cry.

"The savages.  They be afther coming on again, bad cess to 'em!"

The Irishman was right.  The savages had found their trail and were
once again after them hot-footed.

Which way now?  That was the question in the mind of every member of
the party.

It was Dave who solved the problem.  Gazing across the cove, he
espied a good-sized rowboat half hidden among some bushes.

The boat had been left there by those on the _Raven_ the night
before, and in the excitement of the departure had been completely
forgotten.

"A boat!  A boat!" he cried.  "Come!"

He led the way on a run, with the others close upon his heels.

But to circle the cove, which was surrounded with tropical trees,
vines, and sharp rocks, was not easy; and before half the distance
was covered they heard the cries of the savages.

"They are coming closer!" came from Bob.  "Perhaps we had better hide
again."

"Don't ye be afther doin' such a foolish thing," answered Pat
Stoodles.  "They kin track ye quicker nor an Indian could do th'
thrick.  Take to the boat--it's safer."

On they went, over the rocks and through the tangle of undergrowth.
Often one or another would stumble, and scratches and rent clothing
were numerous.  Closer and closer came the natives.  When the latter
saw how fresh the trail was they let out a blood-curdling cry of
triumph.

At last our friends were within a hundred yards of the boat.  But now
poor Bob was exhausted, for his foot still pained him greatly.

"I--I can't run any--any more!" he gasped.

"Then we'll carry you," answered Captain Broadbeam, and caught the
young engineer up in his arms.

At last the rowboat was gained and they were delighted to note that
it contained two pairs of stout oars.  Into the craft they tumbled as
rapidly as possible, and it was Dave who helped Captain Broadbeam to
shove off.

The movement came none too soon, for scarcely were all but poor Bob
seated at the oars than the natives burst into view through the
jungle back of the stretch of beach surrounding the cove.

"Hi gi!  We-ra!" they yelled, and then a shower of arrows was aimed
at our friends.  One arrow cut through the captain's coat and another
buried itself in the stern of the rowboat.

"Pull!  Pull!" shouted Dave.

And then they all pulled as never before, Captain Broadbeam giving
the stroke, and soon the rowboat was carried a hundred feet from
shore.  But now came a second flight of arrows and Pat Stoodles was
hit in the back.

"I'm done fer!" he moaned, and fell in a heap at the bottom of the
craft.

"Give me his oar!" came from Bob, and with his teeth set grimly, he
caught up the drifting blade and took his place among the rowers.

Shower after shower of arrows now flew all around the rowboat and its
occupants and nearly all on board were struck, although none
seriously, for the distance was now too great for the savages' aim.

"Keep it up--we'll soon be out of range," panted Captain Broadbeam,
and straight out into the broad Pacific plunged the rowboat, over the
breakers and then into the mighty swells beyond.

At last the cove began to fade from view and the arrows no more
reached them.

""We are saved!" murmured Bob, and then fell unconscious beside Pat
Stoodles.

Leaving Dave to continue rowing, that the boat might not be upset by
the long ocean swells, Captain Broadbeam and Doctor Barrell turned
their attention to Bob and to Pat Stoodles.

It was found that Bob was suffering from a wound in the shoulder, and
the loss of blood, following his former weakness, had been too much
for him.

"He'll be all right after a while," said the doctor, after binding up
the wound.  "That is, unless there was poison on the arrow tip, and I
see no evidence of such poison in the appearance of any of our
wounds."

Poor Pat Stoodles was worse off and it was a grave question whether
he would live or die.

He did not regain consciousness, although the doctor did his best for
the poor Irishman.

"He needs stimulants," said Doctor Barrell.

"And we haven't so much as a drink of water," answered Captain
Broadbeam, soberly.

An hour went by and the hot sun poured down fiercely upon those in
the rowboat.

They knew not which way to turn, fearing that if they attempted to
land again the savages would follow them up.

"We will row in the direction of the landing place where we first
came ashore," said Captain Broadbeam, and this was done.

An hour later Dave let out a cry of dismay.

"The savages!  They are after us again!"

He was right.  Around a distant point of land had appeared at least a
dozen savages, and all were making for the rowboat with all speed!




CHAPTER XVIII

ON THE BOSOM OF THE OCEAN

"We can't land here!" cried Dave.

"You are right," answered Captain Broadbeam.  "See, more savages are
coming from behind yonder trees."

"What shall we do?" questioned the doctor, his face full of concern.

"There is but one thing to do--put to sea again," came from the
master of the _Swallow_.

The savages came on with a rush, yelling at the top of their lungs.
As they approached the water's edge they let fly a shower of arrows.
But fortunately for our friends, all fell short of the mark.

As quickly as it could be accomplished, the rowboat was turned around
and headed once more from the island.  All who had been rowing were
tired, but did their best to get the craft away from the shore.

As soon as the savages saw the boat leaving they set up another yell,
and several rushed away to find those who were out in the canoes.

But the latter were on the other side of the island, and before they
could be notified our friends had, for the time being, made good
their escape.

Dave was all but exhausted, and at last dropped his oar and sank in a
heap on the seat.

"Played out, eh?" came from Captain Broadbeam.  "Well, I don't
wonder.  I'm about played out myself."

An hour went by and the rowboat rose and fell on the broad swells of
the Pacific Ocean.

In vain they looked in all directions for the _Swallow_.  The vessel
was not to be seen.

All in the rowboat were exceedingly thirsty and would have given much
for a drink of water.

Crouched on the seats, with poor Bob and Pat Stoodles beside them,
Dave, the captain, and the doctor talked the situation over.

"We are certainly in a pickle," said Dave.  "If we can't find the
ship, what then?"

"We must find the _Swallow_," declared Captain Broadbeam.  "Unless we
do, we'll starve to death."

"We might return to the island at nightfall," said the doctor.
"Remember, we need water and so do these poor sufferers."  And he
pointed to Bob and the Irishman.

"That's a scheme," cried Dave.  "We might land under cover of
darkness and hide somewhere until we can locate the ship."

Slowly the day wore away.  Towards nightfall the wind began to blow
strongly, sending the spray flying in all directions.

"We can't stand this," was Dave's comment.  "If it blows any harder,
we'll be swamped."

"We must take to the oars and keep the boat up to the seas," said the
captain, and this was done.

A little later it began to rain.  At first it did not amount to much,
but presently it began to pour.  As best they could, they gathered a
small quantity of the water and drank it greedily.  They also gave
Bob and Stoodles a drink, which did the injured much good.

At last night was upon them, black and threatening.  The rowboat was
drifting in the wind and the rain, but where to none could tell.

"We must take what comes," said Captain Broadbeam, gravely.  "We are
in the hands of Providence."

Dave was so exhausted he could not keep his eyes open and soon he
went sound asleep, and not long after this the doctor followed his
example.  Only the captain remained awake and he was so exhausted he
could do absolutely nothing.

It was about three o'clock in the morning when the wind began to blow
a regular hurricane.  The mad plunging and pitching of the rowboat
aroused Dave.

"What's up?" he cried.

"The storm is increasing," answered the captain.

"Are we still out on the ocean!"

"Yes."

Captain Broadbeam had scarcely spoken when there came a shock that
almost turned the rowboat over.

"We have struck!"

"We are going to the bottom!"

The shock aroused all but Pat Stoodles.  Bob would have gone
overboard had it not been for Dave, who caught the unconscious man by
the shoulder and held him.

"Don't--don't hurt me!" groaned Bob.  "Oh!"

A moment later came another shock.  Then the rowboat appeared to
slide over a sand bar, and of a sudden Captain Broadbeam felt the
limb of a tree brush his side.

"Hullo! what's this?" he ejaculated.  "A tree limb--and here's
another!  Can it be a floating tree----"

"Hurrah!  Here's land!" burst out Dave, peering into the darkness.
"A shore of some kind."

"Beware of the savages," cautioned Doctor Barrell.  "They may be
close at hand."

"I'd rather meet the savages than drown in this storm," came bluntly
from Captain Broadbeam.

The rowboat had indeed drifted to some sort of a shore.  Close at
hand was a sandy beach, and beside this some rocks and a grove of
tropical trees.  The details of the scene were lost in the darkness.

As the rowboat struck on the beach the captain leaped out and hauled
the craft up.  But he was not quick enough to escape the breakers and
one swept over the craft, nearly drowning all on board.  Then Dave
sprang out, and at last the pair had the boat out of the reach of the
sea.

"Thank Heaven we have landed somewhere," declared the youth.  "I
thought sure we were bound for Davy Jones's locker."

The rowboat was dragged along the beach and the captain, the doctor,
and Dave succeeded in turning it over on some rocks, thus making of
it a sort of shelter from the storm.  Under it they placed Bob and
the Irishman, making them as comfortable as circumstances permitted.
This done, the three found something of a shelter under the trees and
there sank down to rest until morning.

When Dave opened his eyes the sun was shining brightly and close at
hand a number of tropical birds were singing gayly.  For the moment
he could not remember what had occurred and he sat up, gazing around
in bewilderment.

"We are shipwrecked," he murmured at length.  "I wonder if those
savages are anywhere near?"

He arose and stretched himself and then walked out on the shore of
the island.  None of the others were awake, and he determined to let
them rest as long as they wished, providing no danger was at hand.

Not a soul was in sight and the place looked much different from that
where the savages had been encountered.

"It looks to me as if this is another island," he reasoned, and he
was right.

On the shore were a number of oysters and clams, and he lost no time
in picking up as many as he thought they might use for a meal.  Then
he caught up several stones and sticks and went after the birds.  He
was good at throwing and soon brought down three birds of fair size.

"Hullo, what's doing?" was the cry, and he saw Captain Broadbeam
approaching.

"I'm trying to gather something for breakfast."

"Good enough.  Seen anything of the savages?"

"No."

"This doesn't look like the same island."

"Just what I think, captain."

"Well, I hope there are no savages here.  Seen anything of the
_Swallow_?"

"Nothing whatever."

Some brushwood and sticks were gathered, and after a little trouble a
fire was started.  The smell of the cooking clams and oysters aroused
the others.

"Ha! a fire and breakfast!" cried the doctor.  "That interests me!"

"How do you feel, Bob?" questioned Dave, bending over his friend.

"Tired all over, Dave.  Where are we!"

"On one of these islands of the ocean."

"Have we escaped from the savages?"

"For the present, yes."

"I'm mighty hungry."

"You shall have breakfast as soon as it is cooked."

"Sure an' I'm hungry meself," came from Pat Stoodles.

"How are you feeling?" questioned the doctor.

"Loike I had been through a clothes wringer, docthor," was the
answer.  "Bad cess to thim savages!"

Not long after this the clams and oysters, as well as the birds, were
ready for eating, and Bob and the Irishman were given what the doctor
thought was best for them.  The others ate their fill, and after the
repast was over all felt much better.

"There are just two things for us to do," said Captain Broadbeam:
"Keep out of the way of the savages and find the _Swallow_."

"And in the meantime we have got to feed ourselves and take care of
the wounded," added Doctor Barrell.

The matter was talked over and it was decided that the doctor should
remain with Bob and Stoodles, while the captain and Dave went on a
short tour of exploration.

"I do not imagine that this island is very large," said the captain,
as he and Dave set out.  "To my mind it won't be a bad idea to skirt
the shore first."

"Just as you say," answered the youth.

"We want to keep our eyes peeled for the savages, though."

It was an easy matter to follow the shore on two sides of the island,
but to the north and the west were numerous rocks, and they climbed
over these only with the greatest difficulty.

"Be careful, or you'll sprain an ankle," said the captain.

"There seems to be a hill near the center of the island," said the
young diver.  "Wouldn't it be a good idea to climb to the top of
that?"

"Yes, as soon as we have finished skirting the shore."

Presently they came to a spot where some extra high rocks hid what
was beyond from their view.

"Hark!" cried Dave, coming to a sudden halt.  "What was that?"

"I don't know," answered the captain.  "Sounded like somebody
calling, didn't it?"

Both listened, and presently from the other side of the rocks came a
low whine, followed by a scream.

"Somebody is there!" murmured Dave.  "Perhaps a savage!"

"We'll take a peep," began Captain Broadbeam, when of a sudden a
hairy form leaped on top of the rocks and confronted them.

The form was that of a gorilla.  The creature was all of four feet
high, with strong limbs and a face of peculiar ferocity.

"Look out!" yelled Dave.  "He means mischief!"

The young diver was right.  The gorilla gave a snarl, and the next
instant made a leap for Captain Broadbeam's shoulder.  It landed
fairly and squarely on the captain and bore that individual to the
ground.




CHAPTER XIX

FIGHTING A GORILLA

The appearance of the gorilla had been so unexpected that for the
instant Dave knew not what to do.  As the captain went down with the
creature on top of him, the young diver fancied that the man would
surely be killed.

"Help!" cried Captain Broadbeam, and this call aroused the youth to
his senses.  Catching up a stick, he hit the gorilla a resounding
whack on the head.  Then he struck at the beast's body.

The gorilla did not like such treatment, and with a snarl it dropped
its hold on the captain and turned towards Dave.  A moment later it
was on the young diver's breast and Dave was doing his utmost to
throw the creature off.

It was now the young diver's turn to call for assistance, which he
did most lustily.

"I'll help you!" cried the captain, and catching up a stone, he hit
the gorilla in the side with it.  The creature gave a snarl and
sprang back to the top of the rocks.  Then it disappeared as suddenly
as it had come.

"Ugh!" murmured Dave.  "What a horrid beast!"

"Are you hurt?"

"Only a scratch or two."

"We were lucky to get off so easily, lad."

"Is he gone for good!" asked Dave, with a slight shiver.

"I'm sure I don't know."

Each now lost no time in arming himself with a stout club and with a
couple of fair-sized and sharp stones.  They listened, but could hear
nothing of the gorilla.

"I'd feel safer if I knew that beast was dead," said the captain.
"He may take it into his head to attack us again."

"And he may be only one of a regular tribe," put in Dave.

"No, Dave; gorillas don't live together like monkeys.  At the most
you'll find two together."

With great caution they climbed to the top of the rocks and peered
over.  Not a living creature of any sort was in sight.

"He has gone, that's certain," said Dave, and gave a sigh of relief.

They went on their way, and inside of an hour had walked completely
around the island, which was not over half a mile in diameter.

"Now we'll go up the hill and take a look around," said Captain
Broadbeam.

On the side of the hill the tropical growth was thick, and they had
to fairly cut their way through the tangle of underbrush and long
trailing vines.

"This is what I call work," said Dave, panting.  "How much further
have we to go?"

"Not very much further, Dave.  I think--listen!"  The captain broke
off short and both listened.  But only the murmur of the breeze
through the trees came to their ears.

"What did you hear?" asked the young diver.

"I fancied I heard that gorilla again."

"Oh, don't say that!"

"Perhaps I was mistaken.  But it would be just like the beast to
follow us," continued the master of the _Swallow_.

"We will have to be on our guard."

Both looked around with care, but could see nothing of the gorilla.
Then they pushed on once more, up the rocks and through a tangle of
vines until they reached a bit of a clearing on the very top of the
hill.

"Here we are, safe and sound!" said the captain.  "I wish we had a
spyglass."

They took a careful look around, and noted that the island was
circular in form, with a small cove on the south shore, where the
rowboat had landed.

On all sides stretched the rolling Pacific, the waves glistening
brightly in the strong sunshine.

Not another island of any sort was in sight.

"I believe that other island is to the westward of this," said the
captain.  "But it's too far off to be located with the naked eye."

"I don't see anything of the _Swallow_, or of any other ship," came
from Dave, after he had gazed around for several minutes.

"The ship is probably in the vicinity of that other island."

From the top of the hill they could see that the island was
uninhabited.  Whether or not any wild beasts outside of the gorilla
were located there they could not determine.

"I hope we don't have to stay here too long," remarked the young
diver, as they started back for the spot where they had left Bob and
Stoodles.

"We'll have to stay until we find the ship."

Halfway down the side of the hill Captain Broadbeam gave a sudden
leap into the air.

"Look out!" he screamed.

"What's the matter?" queried Dave.

"Spiders!  As big as your hand!"

The master of the _Swallow_ was right.  He had stepped on a mound
which was a spiders' nest, and out from the soil issued ten or a
dozen big brown and yellow spiders, most ferocious in their
appearance.

The creatures made after both the captain and Dave, and both lost no
time in putting a good distance between themselves and that vicinity.

"Gosh!  I never saw such spiders in my life!" gasped Dave, when he
thought himself safe.

"They certainly were large, Dave.  But such things grow big in the
tropics."

"They looked as if they might be poisonous."

"They are.  We must watch out for them in the future."

Not long after this they came to a spot where a number of bushes were
growing, covered with large, oval-shaped berries.

"These berries are perfectly good and very nourishing," said the
captain.  "Let us pick a quantity and take them back to the camp."

Back of the patch of berries was a fine spring and here they procured
a cold drink of water.  Just below the spring was a wide pool several
feet deep, and in this pool numerous small lizards were darting
around.

"Everything is full of life in the tropics," remarked the young
diver.  "Just look at the birds and fish, and lizards and spiders,
and a hundred and one other things!"

"Yes, and the vegetation is very plentiful," added the captain.

They were still some distance from the shore when Dave called a halt.

"Look at the big birds yonder," he whispered.  "Can't we bring down
two or three with sticks or stones?  They will make fine eating."

"We can try it, Dave."

Sticks and stones were handy, and arming themselves they approached a
large tree upon which the birds were resting.

"Ready?" asked Dave.

"Yes."

"Throw!"

The youth let fly a short stick and the captain a sharp stone.  Down
came two birds, one dead and the other seriously wounded.  The others
set up a wild squawking and flew away.

"Not so bad!" cried the captain, and ran to dispatch the wounded bird.

As he stooped over the bird there was a strange cry from another tree
close by and then a whir through the air.

"The gorilla!" ejaculated Dave.  "Look out!"

The young diver's cry came too late.  Down came the beast that had
attacked them before, landing directly on Captain Broadbeam's
shoulder and clutching the man by the throat!

For the instant Dave was almost paralyzed.  But then he realized the
captain's peril and rushed in to the man's assistance.

In his hands the young diver clutched a heavy stick, and this he
brought down with all force on the gorilla's head.

The creature was taken by surprise and dropped its hold.  But its
skull was too thick to mind greatly the blow which had been
delivered, and an instant later it leaped forward once more, this
time for Dave.

The young diver dodged, and in a twinkling the gorilla had Dave
around the waist while the youth had the creature around the shoulder
and neck.  Then began the struggle, the beast trying to bite and Dave
trying his best to prevent such a movement.

In the midst of the melee Captain Broadbeam rushed to the rescue.  He
had picked up Dave's stick, which the young diver had dropped, and
now he struck the gorilla twice across the back and then across the
lower limbs.

Not knowing what to make of this last attack, the creature turned
once more and dropped its hold of Dave.  But at another blow from the
stick it began to retreat, and soon was lost to sight in the jungle
on the hillside.

"He has gone!" said the captain, breathing heavily from his exertions.

"What a fighter he is!" gasped Dave.  He had all he could do to catch
his breath.

"I wish we had killed him, lad.  Then he couldn't bother us again."

"Yes, it's too bad we didn't finish him.  He will probably lay low
for us now.  Maybe he'll attack us while we sleep."

"We'll have to stand guard."

Making certain that the gorilla had really left the vicinity, they
continued the journey to the shore, reaching the camp a little while
later.  They found Doctor Barrell waiting impatiently for their
return.  Both Bob and the Irishman were sleeping soundly.

"And what did you discover?" asked the man of science.

"Very little," answered the captain.  "But we have had a couple of
nasty fights."

"With the savages?"

"No, with a gorilla."

"Is it possible!  Did you kill the creature?"

"No, he got away."

"Too bad!  I would give much to catch a gorilla alive.  We could add
him to our collection."

"Thanks, but no live gorilla in mine," came promptly from Dave.
"Give me a dead one every time."

The doctor listened to their story with much interest and was glad to
see they had brought some berries and the birds for a meal.

"I have found some herbs and plants and given both of the sufferers
medicine," said he.  "I think Bob Vilett will recover rapidly, but it
will take time to bring Pat Stoodles around."

It was now midday, and the sun was scorching.  This being so, all
were content to rest in the shade.  A fire was built, and over it the
birds and also some oysters were done to a turn, and these, with the
berries, made a good meal for all.

During the afternoon Dave made himself a good bow and also several
arrows.  The captain followed his example, and also cut several
good-sized clubs.

"We must arm ourselves as best we can," said Captain Broadbeam.  "If
those savages should happen to come this way we'll be at their mercy."

It was almost sundown when Dave chanced to go down to the ocean front
once more.  He looked out to sea and then gave a cry that aroused all
of the others.

"A ship!  A ship!"




CHAPTER XX

AN ATTACK IN THE DARK

Dave's cry brought Captain Broadbeam to the shore in a hurry.

"Where is the ship?" he demanded.

"There!" and the young diver pointed with his hand.

"You are right, lad.  But she is not headed for this island."

"Can she be the _Swallow_?"

"I should say not."

"Maybe she is the _Raven_."

"It is possible, Dave.  But she is not coming here, that is certain."

"Shall we set up a shout?"

"It will do no good.  They could not hear us."

"We might fly a signal of distress."

"It is too dark for that now."

Both watched the ship with interest.  The captain was right, the
vessel was not headed for the island, and in a few minutes it passed
from view.

"If that was a friendly vessel, it's a chance gone," was Dave's sober
comment.

"True, but it cannot be helped."

As usual in the tropics, night came on quickly.  There was no moon,
but countless stars shone from on high.  The birds ceased their
songs, and presently all was quiet.

"I suppose we may as well proceed to make ourselves comfortable,"
said Dr. Barrell.

"Somebody has got to remain on guard," came from Dave, who was not
inclined to forget that the gorilla was still at large.

"We'll divide up the night into three watches of three hours each,"
said the captain.  "I can take one watch, Dave another, and the
doctor the third."

So it was arranged, and it fell to Dave to go on guard first.

"That suits me," said the young diver.  "I hate to break in on my
night's rest after I have once retired."

A comfortable spot had been selected for all hands.  It was located
about two hundred feet from the shore, where there was a series of
rocks and some trees.  The doctor had fashioned some brushwood into a
shack, and gathered additional brushwood for bedding.

To keep himself awake Dave began to walk around the camp, and also
made several trips down to the ocean front.  He carried his bow and
his arrows with him, to help guard against any surprise.

On his second trip down to the shore he noticed a strange fire a long
distance off.

"That must be a camp-fire of some sort," he mused.  "Perhaps it is
that of the savages on that other island."

He watched the fire for a quarter of an hour and gradually it died
away, leaving the ocean as dark as before.

It must be confessed that his day's tramping had made Dave sleepy,
and it was all he could do to keep his eyes open.

"I'll be glad when it comes my turn to go to bed," he thought.

The young diver had less than half an hour to remain on guard when
his attention was attracted to a peculiar sound among the trees close
at hand.

He looked in the direction, and was horrified to see two shining eyes
glaring down at him.

"A wild beast, sure," he reasoned.  "Wonder if the thing wants to
attack me?"

As quickly as he could, he got his bow into position and adjusted one
of the arrows to the string.

The eyes were still turned upon him and the sight was enough to make
his blood run cold.

"Here goes!" he muttered, and taking careful aim, he let the arrow
fly with all force.

His aim was true, and no sooner had the arrow struck than there was
an unearthly shriek, and out of the tree dropped a large dark object.
It flipped and flopped over the ground, uttering snarl after snarl.

"What's the row?" cried Captain Broadbeam, leaping to his feet and
seizing a club.

"I've struck something!" answered Dave.  "Take care!"

"It's that gorilla!"

"So I see--now," said the young diver.

The creature was seriously but not mortally wounded and continued to
flop around, uttering the most unearthly of shrieks and cries, which
awoke all of the others in the camp.

"In mercy's name what does this mean?" demanded Doctor Barrell,
nervously.

"Here is your gorilla, doctor!" sang out Dave.  "Come and get him if
you want him."

"Ugh! what a horrid creature.  Is--is he dangerous still?"

"He will be if you get too close to him."

"Kill him!  kill him!" cried Bob.  "Don't let him come this way!"

Watching his opportunity, Captain Broadbeam let fly with his club,
hitting the gorilla in the neck.  Then Dave put another arrow into
the creature's body, and at last it gave a shudder and a gasp and
rolled over dead.

"Kilt, is it?" came weakly from Pat Stoodles.  "Sure an' it's a good
job done, so it is!"

The camp-fire was stirred up and the captain picked up a torch and
walked over to the gorilla.

"Dead as a stone," he announced, and then Dave and the doctor
approached.

"We can save the skin and the skull," said Doctor Barrell.  "They, at
least, can do us no harm."

"I am glad he is dead," came from the captain.  "Dave, you gave him a
good one in the eye."

"I'm glad I had the bow and arrow to do it with," answered the young
diver modestly.

After this Captain Broadbeam went on guard, and, utterly exhausted,
Dave lay down and slept soundly until long after the sun came up on
the following morning.

"Now I feel like a new man," said the young diver on arising.  "I can
tell you a sound sleep is a wonderful thing."

"The question is, what are we to do next?" came from the doctor.  "We
cannot remain on this island forever."

"Well, we shall have to remain until some ship takes us off," said
Captain Broadbeam.

"And in the meantime we have got to provide for ourselves," put in
Dave.  "And that is not going to be so easy unless we live on clams,
oysters, fish, and berries."

"Don't forget the birds," said the captain.

Dave wanted to go fishing, and after a good deal of trouble succeeded
in making a hook of a big pin Bob had been using in place of a button
on his jacket.  For bait he used a big bug he found under a dead tree
limb.

"I don't know how this is going to work," he said.

"Well, there is nothing like trying," answered the captain.  "I'll
see what I can do to bring down some more birds and find some fruit."

Dave started to fish in the cove, and it was not long before he got a
bite and pulled in a fish weighing a couple of pounds.  This
encouraged him, and inside of an hour he had a mess of nine to his
credit.

"We'll be able to get all the fish we want, that is sure," he
reasoned.  "Living on the island wouldn't be half bad, if it wasn't
that those fellows on the _Raven_ may sail away and get at that
treasure before we have a chance to reach the spot."

Dave could not help thinking, too, of those on the _Swallow_, and he
wondered how his father was faring.

Having caught all the fish he wished he was presently joined by
Captain Broadbeam, who had brought down two more birds.

"I think I'll take a swim," said Dave.  "I feel as if I needed the
wash."

"Very well, I'll sit on the shore and watch you," replied the captain.

The young diver was soon in the water, which felt cool and
refreshing.  He loved to sport around, and dove and swam about to his
heart's content.

"Better come in," he said to the master of the _Swallow_.

"Not to-day, lad," came back the answer.  "How is the bottom where
you are swimming?"

"Sandy, with a few shells," answered Dave.  "Do you know what I am
thinking?" he went on.  "There may be pearls here."

"Perhaps."

"I'm going to do some diving and take a look around."

Dave was as good as his word and dove not once but a dozen times.  He
brought up a peck of oysters, but none containing pearls.

"Must have been mistaken," he said.  "I'll try it once again."

He made a beautiful dive and reached the bottom with ease.

But scarcely had he put out his hand for an oyster when he saw
something that filled him with alarm.

A long, dark object was moving along the ocean bottom towards him.

At first he could not make out what it was, but presently discovered
that it was a slimy water snake.  The reptile was all of ten feet in
length and five or six inches in thickness.

Dave had no wish to encounter such a horrible-looking creature, and
turning, he started to swim to the surface.

The water snake came after him rapidly, and just as he got his head
above water Dave felt something slippery curl itself around one of
his legs and start to draw him under.




CHAPTER XXI

DAVE AND THE WATER SNAKE

"Help me, Captain Broadbeam!"

"What's the matter, Dave!"

"A water snake has me by the leg."

Before Dave could say more the water snake began to pull so fiercely
that the head of the young diver was forced under the water.

He struggled desperately, trying his best to get away.

But now the reptile swung the fore part of its body around and
embraced Dave's other leg, rendering the youth almost helpless.

The young diver kicked as hard as he could, but the reptile only
clung the closer.

Down went the youth, until he felt that he must be drowned or
strangled to death.

He was afraid to feel for the snake with his hands for fear of losing
control of those members also.

With a wild effort he arose almost to the surface, so that he could
see above him.

Whizz!  It was a rope, thrown to him by Captain Broadbeam.  It
belonged to the rowboat and the captain had been carrying it,
thinking it might be useful in one way or another.

The end of the rope just failed to reach Dave, but as soon as he saw
it the young diver did his best to get hold of the object.

His breath was fast leaving him when he managed to clutch the rope
with one hand.  Then he drew it towards him and caught it with his
other hand also.

Captain Broadbeam was watching anxiously, and as soon as he felt the
rope tighten he began to haul in, slowly at first and then with might
and main.

Nearer to shore came Dave, dragging the horrible water snake behind
him.  In vain the reptile tried to stay its progress.  Then it
thrashed around and caught Dave at the neck.  In self-defense the
youth had to take one hand and try to force the water snake away.
But this could not be done.

At last Dave could walk on the bottom, and then he struggled into
shore with all speed.

As he did this, Captain Broadbeam came to his assistance, and
clutched at the reptile.  But the water snake was out of its element
on land, and in a trice it loosened itself, dropped back into the
ocean, and disappeared.

Dave was so exhausted he pitched headlong on the sand, where he lay,
panting for breath.

"Did he sting you?" queried the captain, anxiously.

"I don't think so," was the gasped-out reply.  "But he came pretty
close to drowning me!"

"I reckon you won't go bathing again, lad."

"Not for a million dollars!"

"That's the worst of bathing in unknown waters.  You don't know what
you are going to run up against."

"I didn't imagine there were water snakes here."

After resting awhile, Dave dressed himself, and the pair went back to
the camp.

Dave was delighted to note that Bob was recovering rapidly and that
Pat Stoodles was also doing as well as could be expected.

"You want to be careful, Dave," said Bob.  "We can't afford to lose
you."

"And I don't want to be lost," answered the young diver, grimly.

"Have you seen anything of the savages?"

"Not a sign."

"They must wonder what has become of us."

"Perhaps they think we escaped to the ship."

"If we only had!"

"That is so, Bob, but we have got to make the best of it."

"And you can't see a sign of the ship anywhere?"

"Not the least bit of a sign."

"Too bad!" and the young engineer gave a deep sigh.

Slowly the hours dragged by.  It was very warm, but there were signs
of a storm in the air.

Dave set to work to gather some firewood, thinking a good fire would
serve to keep them comfortable in case of a heavy rain.

"I shouldn't be surprised if we got a heavy one, when it does come,"
remarked Captain Broadbeam, as he gazed at the sky.

"Storms in the tropics are apt to prove severe," said Doctor Barrell.

Having collected the firewood, Dave went out with his bow and arrows
to see if he could bring down some more birds.

At first he moved but a short distance from the camp, but presently
he saw some extra fine birds at a distance and followed them toward
the north shore of the island.

He had just brought down one bird and was trying for a second when
the storm broke and the rain began to come down heavily.

"This is severe, and no mistake," he murmured.  "Guess I'll have to
find shelter unless I want to get soaked."

Not far away were some tall rocks, backed up by a clump of bushes and
vines.

The young diver moved towards the rocks on the run.  He was but a few
feet away when he saw an opening in front of him--a split in the
rocks of unknown depth.

He tried to step back to safety, but it was too late.  His feet
slipped and down he went for several yards.

"Hullo, this won't do!" he cried.  "I don't want to get into another
underground cave!"

He tried to climb up the rocks, but again his feet slipped and he
went down a yard or two more.  This time he struck a solid flooring
of rocks, so to descend further was impossible.

"Thank fortune the hole isn't any deeper," he said half aloud.

The fall had shaken him up somewhat and for the minute he remained
where he was, trying to get back his breath.

He noticed that the rocks around him were all perfectly smooth, but
did not realize what this meant until he tried to crawl to the top of
the opening.

He could not get a hold anywhere, and as often as he got up a foot or
two, he slipped back again.

"Well, this is provoking, to say the least," he muttered.  "How in
the world am I to get out of here?"

The rain was now pouring down steadily, and in a very few minutes he
was wet to the skin.

"If I had a rope or a pole I might get out," he reasoned.  But he had
absolutely nothing with which to help himself.

A quarter of an hour went by and then to Dave's alarm he found the
water pouring into the hole steadily from a rivulet above.  Soon the
water was up to his ankles and it arose steadily to his knees.

The storm was now on in all of its fury, and in the forest he could
hear the trees swaying and snapping under the pressure of the high
wind that was blowing.

Again he made an effort to crawl out of the opening.  But the rocks
were now wet and slippery and afforded no foothold whatever.

The wind was increasing steadily until it blew a regular hurricane.
High overhead he saw some branches of trees sailing through the air.

"I hope those in camp are safe," he said to himself.

A little later came an extra heavy blast of wind.  There followed a
great crashing, and in an instant a big tree fell directly over the
opening, cutting off much of the light above.

One of the tree branches pressed down on Dave's head, forcing him to
a sitting position in the hole.

"This is the worst yet!" he muttered, after he realized that he was
not harmed.  "Now I am a regular prisoner.  I can't move that tree,
that's sure!"

By the aid of the tree limb the young diver crawled upward until he
reached the trunk across the opening.

The branches were so thick he had to literally force his way along.

The opening was almost closed by the big tree trunk, but to one side
there were several loose rocks, and after an effort he succeeded in
shoving them into the hole and thus making a place through which he
crawled, although not without great difficulty.

He was now free once more, and despite the fury of the elements set
off for the camp with all speed.

To travel was not easy, and often he had to make a detour in order to
avoid a fallen tree or a deep pool of water.

He was still a short distance from camp when there came another
terrific whirl of wind that sent tree limbs flying in all directions.
One struck Dave on the shoulder and hurled him flat.

"Phew! this is awful!" he muttered, and then stopped short, as a cry
from a distance reached his ears.

"Help! help!" came in Doctor Barrell's voice.  "Help, or I shall be
killed!"




CHAPTER XXII

WHAT THE STORM BROUGHT

As quickly as he could Dave picked himself up once more and hurried
into the camp.

Here he ran into Captain Broadbeam.

"Hullo, did you call?" asked the captain.

"No, it was Doctor Barrell," answered the young diver.  "Where is he?"

For reply came another call from the scientific man, and now they
located him down near the shore of the ocean.  He was lying on his
back, with a small tree pressing him down into the sand.  The waves
were sending their spray flying over him.

It was but the work of a moment to lift the tree.  While Captain
Broadbeam did this, Dave helped the doctor to crawl to a point of
safety.

"Ugh! what an experience!" muttered Doctor Barrell, as he gave a
shudder.  "Thank you for rescuing me."

"How did it happen, doctor?" questioned Dave.

"I came out to look for you.  Just as I reached the spot the wind
sent the tree down and over me.  I am thankful that I was not killed."

All hurried into camp, and here Dave told his story.  Then they had
to watch out, fearful that the storm would do them further injury.

But the wind went down as rapidly as it had come up.  The rain,
however, continued, and did not cease until noon of the next day.

"I don't want to encounter many such storms," said Dave, when the sun
shone once more.

"You'll have to put up with them, if you remain in the tropics,"
answered Captain Broadbeam.

When Dave and the others went forth after the storm they picked up a
great number of dead birds.  The ocean shore was strewn with stranded
fish.

"Here is eating enough for a month, if only it would keep," said
Captain Broadbeam.

"I hope we don't have to stay here a month," answered Dave.

"Right you are, lad.  But we must take what comes."

"Don't you think we'll have a spell of good weather after such a
storm as this?"

"Certainly."

"Then I move we take to the boat and try to find our ship.  We can
take the dead birds, fish, and some oysters, clams, berries, and
cocoanuts along for provisions.  And also some bamboo sticks full of
fresh water."

The idea appealed strongly to Captain Broadbeam and also to Doctor
Barrell.  Bob and the Irishman were willing to do anything that the
others wished.

"Let us start out to-morrow," said the captain, and after that no
time was lost in preparing for the expedition.

The rowboat was carefully overhauled, and then loaded with the things
that seemed necessary to take along.  Water was to be had in plenty,
and they filled many big, hollow bamboo stems with it, corking up the
stems until the water should be wanted.

"We must remember to keep the island in view," said the captain.  "We
may be glad enough to return, in case we cannot locate the _Swallow_."

At last came the time set for starting out, and Bob and Pat Stoodles
were helped into the rowboat.  The others followed, and the captain
and Dave pushed away and took to the oars of the craft.

"I trust we find the ship," sighed Bob.  In his weakened condition he
longed for the comforts which had been denied to him while on the
island.

"So do I hope we find the _Swallow_," answered Dave.

"We must keep a close watch for those savages," came from Captain
Broadbeam.  "I shouldn't wish to fall into their hands again."

"Bad cess to thim!" cried Pat Stoodles.  "Niver do I want to set me
eyes on thim ag'in!"

The rowboat passed around one corner of the island and all looked
eagerly for some sign of a sail.

"Nothing in sight," said Dave.

"I see something drifting upon the waves," announced the doctor.

All looked in the direction which he pointed out and saw a large mass
of driftwood floating toward them.

"That means a wreck of some sort," cried the captain.  "Let us make
an investigation."

The others were willing, and not long after this they came up beside
the wreckage, which proved to be a spar with cordage and part of a
forecastle and rail.

"Can that wreckage be from the _Swallow_?" asked Dave, anxiously.

"It may be," answered the captain.  "Still, I am not sure."

"Perhaps it is from the _Raven_," came from Doctor Barrell.

"I'd rather it was from that vessel than from our own," said the
young diver, quickly.  "But it may be from the _Swallow_, and I'll
tell you why," he added, suddenly.

"Well?"

"Don't you remember about Pete Rackley?  He may have disabled our
ship."

"If he has done so he should be swung from a yardarm," came from
Captain Broadbeam, hotly.

As they could make nothing of the wreckage they allowed it to drift
by and continued their journey around another point of the island.

Not to tire themselves, they took turns at rowing.

Bob and Stoodles were made as comfortable as possible on the seats,
with palm branches laid over them, to protect them from the fierce
rays of the sun.

Thus an hour passed and still nothing of importance came to view.

They saw some more wreckage at a distance, and rowing up to it,
discovered several empty chicken crates and an empty water cask.

"These prove nothing," said the captain.  "The crates may have been
thrown overboard on purpose."

"It's queer, with so much wreckage around, we don't sight some ship,"
said Dave.

"You are right, lad, for that wreckage is not water-soaked and old."

Before long they began to grow hungry, and stopped their search long
enough to get a lunch of berries and cold fish, washed down with
water from one of the bamboo stems.

"This is a great way to carry water," was Dave's comment.  "It keeps
it very sweet."

"So it does, Dave," said the doctor.  "But the water is bound to
evaporate very rapidly."

The lunch over, they resumed their journey.  They had put far out to
sea on one side of the island.  Now they returned, to put out on the
opposite side.

They were within three hundred feet of the island when Doctor Barrell
set up a cry of warning.

"Stop!  Do not land!"

"What's the matter, doctor?" came from the captain.  "We were not
going to land.  We are bound for the other side of the island."

"I saw some persons moving behind yonder bushes and rocks," went on
the man of science.

"Saw somebody?" ejaculated Dave.

"Yes."

"White men?"

"No, savages!"

"Are you sure of this?" demanded Captain Broadbeam.

"I--I think I am," stammered the doctor.

"Where are they?"

"Gone now."

"Perhaps you were mistaken, doctor," said Dave.

"It is possible--but I do not think so."

The rowboat was allowed to drift, and all gazed earnestly toward the
island.  But not a person of any sort appeared.

"This is mighty queer," was the captain's comment.  "The savages
couldn't have been there when we left."

"Maybe they just arrived," said Dave.

"That is possible.  Still----"

"I--I may have been mistaken," said Doctor Barrell.  "Remember, my
eyesight is not of the best."

"I wish we were sure of this," went on the captain.  "If the savages
are on the island in force I don't know as we shall care to go back,
even if we don't locate the ship."

"Perhaps they are hiding, thinking that we will return," said Dave.
"One thing is sure, we have got to be careful of what we do after
this."

They talked the matter over for a few minutes more and then resumed
their journey to the other side of the island.  They kept their eyes
toward the shore, but neither man nor beast came to view.

"Maybe he saw some gorillas," said Bob, who had listened to the talk.
"They look like savages from a distance."

"Well, a lot of gorillas would be as bad as a band of savages,"
answered Dave.

Slowly the rowboat proceeded on its journey until they rounded
another point of the island.  Then Dave set up a shout of dismay.

"What is it?" questioned the captain and the doctor quickly.

"Savages!  They are after us in their canoes!"

The young diver spoke the truth.  There, at no great distance from
the island shore, were two long war canoes, each filled with the
enemy.

As soon as the savages discovered the whites they set up a mad yell
of delight, and then hurried in pursuit of our friends.




CHAPTER XXIII

ON THE SHIP ONCE MORE

"We are in for it now!" cried Dave, as he watched the approach of the
two war canoes loaded down with savages.

"It certainly looks like it," muttered Captain Broadbeam, grimly.
"Well, a man can die but once, and we had better fight to the bitter
end."

"That is true," came from Doctor Barrell.  "But I am afraid that
three against two dozen or more will make a poor showing."

The savages now became aware that they were discovered, and they set
up a fierce shout.  Those at the long sweeps began to row more
swiftly than ever, as if thirsting for the blood of the whites.

"If we only had a gun or two," said Dave.  "But we haven't a thing."

"Only the oars, and they'll make poor weapons," answered Captain
Broadbeam, "I'm afraid it's all up with us, lad.  We must look for
the worst."

"Can't we outdistance them by rowing?"

"I think not."

"But we might reach shore again and take to the jungle.  That will be
better than being slaughtered on the ocean."

"Yes, yes, let us try for the shore!" burst out the doctor.  "We have
at least a fighting chance of reaching it."

As quickly as possible the rowboat was turned about, and its bow
pointed to a distant headland.  All pulled with might and main, the
perspiration pouring down their faces and backs.

But it was useless.  The war canoes crept closer and closer.

And now, as if to make doubly sure of them, there suddenly appeared
upon the beach another crowd of natives, brandishing knives and war
clubs.

The din was hideous, and the cry from the shore was echoed and
re-echoed by the savages in the canoes.

They felt certain that the whites would become their prisoners.

Captain, doctor, and young diver looked at each other with blanched
faces.

They felt that their last hour on earth was at hand.

Swiftly the war canoes came closer.

Then of a sudden something happened which came as a great shock to
our friends and as an even greater shock to the savages.

Boom!

Dull and sullen a ship's gun boomed out and a shot sped across the
bow of the foremost of the canoes.

"A shot!" ejaculated Captain Broadbeam, leaping to his feet.  "What
can it mean?"

"It means that there is a steamship in sight!" cried Dave.  "See the
smoke around the bend of the island.  Here she comes!"

"It is the _Swallow_!" came from the doctor.  "Heaven be praised!"

The physician was right; it was indeed the _Swallow_, and now another
shot boomed out.

The ball struck the stern of the leading war canoe, and the craft
began immediately to fill with water.

The yelling was terrific, for the natives were taken completely by
surprise.

As the first of the canoes began to sink, those on board leaped into
the water.

Some started for the other canoe, but the majority swam toward shore,
thinking that the second craft would soon be served like the first.

But the natives on the shore were not yet daunted, and with another
yell they let fly a shower of arrows at those in the rowboat.

"Down!" cried Captain Broadbeam, and all hurled themselves to the
bottom of the craft.

It was well that they did this, for the arrows must otherwise have
killed one or more of them.

Boom!  A third shot from the _Swallow_ was now directed at those on
shore.

The aim was a good one and two natives were seen to pitch forward, to
rise no more.

Seeing this, the others took to their heels with all speed and
disappeared into the jungle.

It was the last of the attack upon our friends.

The savages had had enough of the contest and now thought only of
saving themselves.

The second canoe was beached in a great hurry and the occupants
disappeared as if by magic.

As soon as they felt free to do so, our friends resumed their oars
and rowed in the direction of the _Swallow_.

On the deck they saw the lieutenant of the ship, Amos Fearless, and
several other familiar faces.

Soon the steamship and the rowboat came together, and then Bob and
Pat Stoodles were hoisted aboard the larger craft.  Dave, the
captain, and the doctor followed.

"Father!" cried Dave, and rushed into his parent's arms.

Amos Fearless could not speak, but his face showed plainly his great
joy.

"And how are you, father?" went on his son.

"He is doing nicely," answered the first mate of the _Swallow_.  "But
his speech has not yet come back to him."

Bob and Pat Stoodles were carried to staterooms, and here Doctor
Barrell proceeded to minister to their comforts through the stock in
his medicine chest.

While this was going on Captain Broadbeam started in to learn if Pete
Rackley had shown himself.

"Why, certainly; he is on board," said the mate.  "He's a poor,
down-hearted cast-away, isn't he?"

"He's a rascal!" burst out Captain Broadbeam.  "Where is he?  I'll
put him in irons!"

A search was at once instituted and at last Pete Rackley was found
hiding in the forecastle.

He was the picture of misery when brought before Captain Broadbeam.

"It's all a mistake," he said, in a trembling voice.  "All a mistake."

"It is no mistake," said the captain, sternly.  "Dave Fearless is
here to testify against you."

"But--but----"

"You need make no more denials, Rackley.  You have played the game
and lost.  Now answer me truthfully: Have you done any harm as yet to
the _Swallow_?"

"No! no!"

"You are telling the truth?"

"I am--I swear it."

"I will order a strict investigation.  If anything is wrong----"

And the captain ended with a stern shake of his forefinger at the
rascal.

Pete Rackley was then bound and cast into the brig of the ship.

The assistant engineer was closely questioned, and he said Rackley
had been seen frequently around the engine room.

Then the entire machinery of the ship was inspected.

At one point several bolts were found filed almost in two.

At another point an oil cup was broken, so that the part might get
dry and thus cause considerable delay.

These things were all mended, and Captain Broadbeam ordered that
Rackley be chained up in the brig because of his falsehoods.

The day was spent in the vicinity of the island, looking for the
_Raven_, but that vessel failed to appear.

By the next morning both Bob and Pat Stoodles were pronounced out of
danger by the doctor.

A conference was held and it was decided that the _Swallow_ should
now proceed with all haste to the spot where the _Happy Hour_ had
gone down with the treasure.

Nothing of special interest happened for several days.

Bob Vilett grew better rapidly and was able to be around at the end
of a week.

Pat Stoodles' recovery was slower.  But to the satisfaction of the
friends he had made it was seen that the Irish castaway's mind was
becoming clearer every day.

"He'll be as clear-headed as any of us when he gets on his feet once
more," said Doctor Barrell, and his statement proved correct.

Day after day went by and the _Swallow_ kept steadily to her course.

Amos Fearless was now as well as ever excepting for his voice.

He could occasionally speak a few words in a hoarse whisper, but that
was all; and he would sometimes break down in the midst of a sentence.

This grieved Dave very much, but he could do nothing for the sufferer.

"It is time alone can do it," said Doctor Barrell, encouragingly.

But Dave was downcast.  What if his father should never be able to
talk again as of old?

"I'd rather let the fortune go than have that happen," he told
himself, over and over again.  He was afraid that the affliction
might grow worse, so that his parent would not be able to make any
sound at all!




CHAPTER XXIV

ATTACKED BY A FIRE FISH

"And this is the spot where the _Happy Hour_ went down?"

"It is, according to the markings on the chart, Dave."

"And how deep do you reckon the ocean is at this point?"

"The chart says 12,500 feet--a little over two miles."

"It is a deep distance.  Regular divers could never make it.  They
would be crushed to death by the mere pressure of the water."

"I have thought the matter over, Dave, and I think it will be best
for both you and your father to go down only a half-mile the first
day.  Then, if that is successful, you can go a little deeper each
day, until the bottom is reached.  And you will have to use the
diving bell at all times."

"I know that.  And if we leave the diving bell at all it will have to
be in those new steel-ribbed diving suits we had made in Washington
especially for this trip," concluded the young diver.

The _Swallow_ lay at rest on the broad bosom of the mighty Pacific
Ocean.

Nothing had been seen of the _Raven_, and at present not a sign of a
strange sail showed itself anywhere.

It was high noon, and Captain Broadbeam had just concluded his
calculations to prove that he was at the very spot which was said to
be that where the _Happy Hour_ had sunk.

Dave looked thoughtfully over the side, into the greenish waves, lit
for a depth of only thirty or forty feet below the surface.

What fortune did that silent body of water hold for his father and
himself?

A touch on his elbow aroused him, and turning, he found his parent
standing beside him.

Amos Fearless could not say a word, but he motioned to the water and
smiled.  Then he spoke to Dave in the sign language of the divers.

"This is the spot," he signed.  "How soon does Captain Broadbeam
calculate to let us go down?"

"I think to-morrow," replied Dave.

A long talk followed, by word of mouth on Dave's part and by signs on
the part of the parent.

It was a sad sight to see Amos Fearless try to talk with his mouth
and fail.  His tongue would cling to his teeth and refuse to budge.
At last he turned away with tears in his eyes and Dave was equally
affected.

The remainder of the day was spent in getting the diving bell into
shape for use.

This was inspected with great care, for it was understood by all that
the two divers, father and son, would be taking their lives in their
hands in going down such an immense distance as contemplated.

"It's queer we don't see anything of the _Raven_," said Dave to
Captain Broadbeam.

"Perhaps Lemuel Hankers knows enough to keep out of our reach," was
the answer.  "He may know that we--or rather, you--are on board and
have exposed Pete Rackley, and he may wish to keep his own head out
of danger."

"That must be it."

"If Hankers came near us I would be apt to make it hot for him."

"And I'll do the same."

It was a clear day overhead when Dave and his father entered the
diving bell and were hoisted over the side of the _Swallow_.

Slowly the immense cable unwound itself, letting the bell down deeper
and deeper.

Soon the light of day was shut out and all became as black as night
and as cold as a tomb.

Amos Fearless turned on the electric current and the diving bell sent
out several rays of light.

The light attracted numerous fish, who swam up swiftly, only to stop
just as fast and gaze stupidly through the glass of the bell's sides.

There was one fish in particular, commonly called the electric-light
fish, the scientific name being linophyrne lucifer, which had what
looked like an electric light on the end of its sharp snout and a
rope-like appendage under its lower jaw.  It had a square mouth and
sharp, curved teeth, and a look which was enough to give an ordinary
mortal a chill.

"We must secure a specimen of that fish," said Amos Fearless, in the
sign language.  "The captain and the doctor spoke about it
particularly."

"And also a specimen of that long, thin thing," answered Dave,
pointing to what is familiarly called in Borneo the ray of fire.  The
ray of fire is a white fish four or five feet long and less than
three inches thick.  It has silver scales which flash out like fire
whenever it swims quickly.

Soon they had reached the half-mile limit, and the diving bell came
to a standstill.

Then a door in the bell was opened and they prepared to spread out a
strong net with which to catch what was desired.

It was by no means an easy task--indeed, the most of a diver's labors
are very hard, and before the net was properly adjusted both Dave and
his parent were almost winded.

Then they moved the diving bell around, from one spot to another, on
the lookout for the electric-light fish and the ray of fire, so
called.

Soon they saw one of the electric-light fish in the vicinity.

They had brought some bait along, and this was tied up in the net.

The monstrous fish scented the bait and came forward slowly and
cautiously.

He was hungry, yet he did not altogether like the appearance of the
diving bell.

He had never seen a live human being before, although he had feasted
upon the body of more than one dead sailor, coming down with some
wreck.

Amos Fearless and Dave remained as motionless as statues.

Nearer and nearer came the electric-light fish.

The light on his snout blinked and winked in an odd fashion and was
once or twice turned upon Dave and his father.

Then, like a flash, the monstrous fish swept into the net after the
bait.

Snap!  went the line attached to the top of the net, and Dave and his
father began pulling the net shut with might and main.

They had to work like lightning, for, feeling that something was
wrong, the electric-light fish began to thrash around at a lively
rate.

The net swept to and fro as the fish darted hither and thither in its
efforts to escape.

Bang!

Up against the diving bell came net and fish with a shock that
threatened to shiver the glass into a million fragments.

"Shove away!" motioned Amos Fearless to his son, and Dave caught hold
of a rod to which the net was fastened and the net was placed at a
distance from the bell.

At last the wonderful electric-light fish was a prisoner in the net.
It still continued to thrash around, and fearful that he might break
loose in spite of the strength of the net, Amos Fearless signaled to
those on the ship to haul up the prize.

Slowly the net ascended until it was out of sight and only the
occasional blinking of the fish's light lit up the path he was taking
to the outside world.  Then even this died out.

"A good haul," said Amos Fearless, in the sign language.  "Now for
that ray of fire and our day's work will be done.  And I will be glad
of it."

"So will I be glad," answered Dave.  "We'll want several days down
here in order to get used to deep-sea work once more."

The diving bell was supplied with a second net--smaller and of a much
tighter mesh, and this they now put out in the hope of catching one
of the rays of fire.

Two were in the vicinity and eying the bell and those inside with
much curiosity.

"Nasty, snaky-looking things," observed Dave, as he helped to bait
the net.  "And they look wicked, too."

"All of the deep-sea fish are wicked-looking," was the answer.  "I
never saw anything different."

They waited for fully ten minutes before one of the strange fishes
came up to the net.

Then it darted inside and began biting at the bait.

"We've got him!" cried Dave, and began to pull on the string which
shut the net up.

At once the ray of fire tried to escape.

But it was too late, for the top of the net closed tight just as he
shoved his nose against it.

Then an odd thing happened.

The fish began to lash around in a circle, emitting a strange sound
like the roll of distant thunder.

Sparks flew from its tail which dropped down into the water like the
sparks from a Roman candle.

"What a beautiful sight!" began Dave, when of a sudden he heard a
swishing through the water.

He turned, to behold his father in a truly perilous situation.

The second ray of fire had come up and wound itself around Amos
Fearless' neck.

Its hard body was like a wand of rubber, and unless the fish were
released the old diver would speedily be strangled to death!




CHAPTER XXV

LEFT TO PERISH

For one moment Dave Fearless' heart seemed to stop beating.

The sight before him was a terrible one.

Vainly was his father struggling to free himself from the deadly
embrace of the creature which had attacked him.

There were three coils of the ray of fire around the old diver's neck
and these were slowly but surely choking the life out of the man.

His eyes were bulging from their sockets--his tongue stuck from his
mouth.  In a few seconds more all would be over.

Close at hand stuck a knife in a case on the wall of the diving bell.

With a leap Dave secured the blade.  Another leap and he was at his
parent's side.

But how should he attack the strange, snake-like fish?  A false cut
and he might stab his father in the throat.

But he must act, or it would be too late.

With a cautious movement of the knife he slit the fish along the back.

There was a strange hissing and the ray of fire swung loose the end
of its tail.

It caught Dave around the wrist, holding that member as in a vise.

At first the youth was inclined to drop the knife, but he managed to
hold on.

Then began an intensely interesting struggle between boy and fish.

Dave tried his best to twist the hand around so that he might cut the
fish a second time.

He brought up his other hand, in an endeavor to transfer the knife,
but as quick as a flash the ray of fire unloosened itself and caught
both wrists.

In its own way it was fighting for its mate, a prisoner in the net.

Dave's two hands were now drawn tightly to his father's throat, as if
the horrible monster of the deep meant to make the boy strangle his
own parent!

"I must get my hand free!" thought the young diver.

Again he struggled, the sweat standing out on his forehead inside of
his diving helmet.

At last he managed to turn one wrist and got the point of the knife
again into the fish's body.

He cut and twisted as best he could and felt the ray of fire quiver
with pain and rage.

The fish could not stand the cutting and presently raised its head in
order to make a new move.

Exerting all of his strength, Dave made a slash at the head and cut
into the light on the fish's snout.

A rush of phosphorescent blood followed, and on the instant all of
the light died out in the creature's body.

Again Dave made a cut, striking deep into the fish, so deeply in fact
that he made an ugly scratch on his father's neck.

This last blow was too much for the ray of fire, and slowly it fell
away and floated off, Dave did not know to where.

Freed from his captor, Amos Fearless sank in a heap at the door of
the diving bell.

Was he dead?

In frantic haste the youth pulled himself and his parent into the
bell and shut the door.

Then he gave a quick signal to be raised to the surface.

There was no immediate answer, and a fresh alarm took possession of
the young diver.

"What does this mean?  Why don't they pull us up?" he asked himself.

Generally the life-line, as it is termed, is watched constantly, and
every signal of a diver is acted upon on the instant.

Were this not so, many a man of the deep would go down never to come
up.

A minute went by and still the signal remained unanswered.

To the boy the time seemed an age.

Feeling that his parent might die before being brought up, he began
to empty the diving bell of water.

There was a fresh-air hose attached to the bell, and as the water was
forced out the air came in, until at last the bell was as dry as a
hogshead that has been emptied.

The moment the water was out, Dave began to work upon his diving suit.

It was no easy job to get it off without assistance.

Generally one diver helped the other, but he could obtain no aid from
that form now lying stiff and motionless upon the floor of the diving
bell.

At last his arms and his head were free and he turned his attention
to his parent.

He unscrewed the helmet and then the rest of the old diver's suit.

Amos Fearless was almost black in the face and there was an ugly mark
around his throat, mingling with the blood from the scratch Dave had
caused.

Putting his ear to his parent's breast, the boy made out that his
father still breathed faintly.

In the diving bell was some liquor, to be used for restorative
purposes, and some of this Dave poured down his father's throat.

But still the man did not stir, and Dave began to rub his hands and
move his arms, that his lungs might again get into working order.

Ten minutes passed and at last Amos Fearless gave a slight gasp.

Taking this for a good sign, Dave continued his labors and was
presently rewarded by seeing his father open his eyes and shudder.

"Father! are you all right now?" asked the boy.

The only reply was a groan.  But then Amos Fearless gave a long
breath, and Dave knew that he was saved.

"You had a narrow escape, father," he said.  "The light fish tried to
strangle you.  I had to cut him to pieces with the knife.  I cut you
a little on the neck, but that couldn't be helped."

Amos Fearless made a feeble sign.  "I know--brave boy," was what he
said, and caught his son by the hand.

In the meantime the ray of fire in the net was still threshing around
on the outside of the bell.

But to this fish they now paid no attention.

"Let us go up," signed Mr. Fearless, after a pause of a few minutes.

"I have signaled," was the son's answer.  "I will signal again."

He pulled the cord several times in lively fashion.

Then he waited--five seconds--ten seconds--a full minute.  And still
the diving bell did not move.

"They have given up watching the lifeline," he reasoned.  "How
careless!  I'll give Captain Broadbeam a talking to when they do haul
us up."

"Something must be wrong," said the father, in his sign language.
"Captain Broadbeam would not forget us in this fashion."

Slowly the minutes went by and each instant father and son grew more
anxious.

They could not ascend of themselves, nor could they leave the diving
bell and float to the surface.

Had they left the bell without their suits the water would have
crushed them, for the pressure was enormous at this distance under
the surface.

The air in the diving bell was anything but pure, and now of a sudden
it stopped coming in altogether.

"We are lost!" cried Dave.  "We shall be smothered to death!"

"I cannot believe Captain Broadbeam has forgotten us," signed Amos
Fearless.  "As I said before, something must be wrong!"

The old diver was right; something was very wrong on board of the
_Swallow_.

While the two divers were at work under the surface of the ocean, a
wild cry had arisen on board of the ship, a cry which thrilled
everyone who heard it to the heart.

It came from the cook's galley and was quickly taken up on all sides.

"Fire! fire!  The ship is on fire!"

The report was true.  Some fat on the cook's stove had boiled over
and taken fire, and now the burning fat was flowing in all directions.

It looked as if the _Swallow_ and all on board of her were doomed!




CHAPTER XXVI

THE BATTLE OF THE FISHES

"Fire! fire! fire!"

This cry, echoing throughout the _Swallow_, is the most dreadful that
sailors on the high seas know.

What hope is there for those on board of a ship going down in
mid-ocean, thousands of miles from land?

"We must put out that fire!" came from Captain Broadbeam.  "Man the
fire hose and send word to the engine room to turn on the water!"

His orders were obeyed as quickly as possible.

Yet everything takes time, and before the hose could be brought into
play the cook's galley was a mass of flames from beginning to end.

The wind was blowing the sparks directly forward, so the captain had
the ship swung round, that the fire might be carried largely over the
side.

A bucket corps was formed and they, too, poured all the water
possible on the conflagration.

It was fierce, hot work, and for some time it looked as if the fire
would get the best of the workers and destroy the _Swallow_.

Small wonder then that Amos Fearless and Dave were for the time being
forgotten.

Ten minutes went by--twenty minutes--and both began to grow desperate.

"We must perish!" groaned Dave.

Amos Fearless shook his head, dismally.

Both became too weak to stand up, and sank on the floor of the diving
bell.

The air was now stale and made them sleepy.

Gradually Dave's eyes closed.

He tried to arouse himself, but the effort was a failure.

It was the beginning of the sleep of death, and the young diver knew
it!

He caught his father's hand and a warm grasp was exchanged in silence.

After that all became as a dream to the young diver.

He thought he was out in the ocean and that numerous fierce fish were
swimming close to him.

Then one large fish swallowed him and he found himself cut off from
all air.

He fought desperately and at last cut a hole in the fish's side and
stepped out into the upper world.

Oh, how good the fresh air tasted.  He filled his lungs and took
breath after breath--and then----

Dave opened his eyes and stared vacantly around him.  He was on the
deck of the _Swallow_ and Doctor Barrell was bending over him, a look
of deep anxiety on the kindly face.

"Dave, how do you feel now!" came in anxious tones.  "Can you
breathe?"

He could not answer excepting to take a long breath; but he now
understood the situation.  He had been hauled up to the _Swallow's_
deck and was saved!  Then of a sudden he became unconscious again.

Quarter of an hour later Dave found himself sitting up and swallowing
some medicine Doctor Barrell was forcing into his mouth.  He still
felt very weak, and when he tried to stand, all swam before his eyes.

"You must keep quiet, lad," said the doctor.  "You have had a narrow
escape from death."

"My father----" began Dave.  He could say no more.

"He was brought up with you, of course."

"And is he--is he----"

"He is slowly recovering, but of course he is older than you and not
so strong, and it will, consequently, take longer."

"But he will get well?"

"I think so."

After that Dave was silent for a long while.  Then Captain Broadbeam
came in, his face covered with smoke and grime.

"I suppose you thought we had deserted you," said the captain.  "We
had a hot time of it, I can tell you."

"A hot time?  What do you mean?"

"Don't you know the ship has been afire, lad?"

"No."

"Well, it has been, and that's why we didn't haul you up before.  I
was afraid we were all bound for Davy Jones' locker, sure."

Of course, Dave was surprised and he listened to the particulars of
the fire with interest.

"The galley is burned off clean and clear," said the captain, "and
we've got an ugly hole in the forward deck.  But otherwise the ship
is all right."

The remainder of the day was spent in cleaning up the muss, and then
the ship's carpenter went to work, with several sailor assistants, to
build a new galley and mend the burned deck.

It was several days before Dave felt able to do any more diving, and
even then it was only the thought of locating the sunken treasure
that made him go down.

Amos Fearless was too weak to do anything, so Dave had to go down
alone.

"Be sure and pull me up," said the young diver, as he was about to
enter the diving bell.

"I will see to that," replied Amos Fearless, in his sign language.
"Don't stay down too long."

Down and down into the dark and cold waters of the Pacific sank the
diving bell.

The trip before had been about half a mile; this time Dave intended
to go down twice that distance.

If this trip was successful he was resolved, on the next day, weather
permitting, to go down to the very bottom, two miles below the
surface.

After what seemed a journey without end the diving bell came to a
stop.

The mile limit had been reached.

The young diver turned on the electric lights and gazed around him,
curiously.

He gave a start of surprise, and not without reason.

The waters were no longer dark and black.

There was a peculiar glow of light coming up from somewhere below,
and in the water floated something closely resembling smoke or clouds.

"What did this mean!"

"It's like another world," he thought.  "And what strange fish!"

But then he caught sight of something which filled him with alarm.

A number of small fish had come up around the diving bell and were
now swarming all over it, inside and out.

Each fish was less than six inches long, but there were hundreds of
them darting hither and thither, churning up the water as before, and
emitting a strange, hissing sound.

He tried to get back to the diving bell, but found the effort a
failure.

The fish swam against him, plunging and leaping, and finally turned
him completely over.

He was in the power of a new enemy, and what the end of this
adventure would be there was no telling.

The fish were indeed curious--some long and thin, others short and
fat, but all with something extremely unusual in their makeup.

One fish had horns on its head, another had wings like those of a
bird, and many had feathers instead of scales on their bodies.

And then came a fish shaped very much like a long, spiral spring,
with a square-looking head and horns all of two feet long just over
his eyes, which set out like two yellow and white eggs.

"I must try and get you, my beauty," thought the young diver, and
prepared to put out the net for that purpose.

He had to work with care, being alone, and it took considerable time
before he opened the diving bell and let in the water.

The first thing that struck him when he felt the water on him was
that it was no longer cold, but warm--even warmer than at the surface.

This was not unpleasant, but he could not help but wonder how much
hotter it might be at the very bottom.

"This part of the ocean may be over a submarine volcano," he
reasoned.  "If that is so it will be boiling at the bottom, and to
get to the wreck will be impossible."

At last his net was set and he baited it with care.

Then he waited.

Several small fish came up and nibbled at his bait, but not the
spiral fish he was after.

"He's a shy one," thought Dave.  "He's not going to be caught if he
knows it."

But at last the young diver was rewarded by seeing two of the spiral
fish approaching.

One apparently urged the other on, until both came into the net and
began to chew at the bait, which was purposely very tough.

With all speed Dave set to work to shut the net.

This was no easy task for a single person, and in order to accomplish
it the young diver had to step outside of the diving bell.

He was just finishing up the task when a strange rushing behind him
caused him to turn around.

At first he could see but little, for the water behind him was
churned up into a milk-white foam.  Then he saw a great mass of
little fishes pressing toward him.




CHAPTER XXVII

THE RIVAL DIVERS

"Gosh, but this is something new!"

So thought Dave Fearless as he tried to pass the little fish in order
to get into the diving bell.

But the little chaps were both frisky and powerful and got in his way
continually.

They smelt of his legs, his body and his head, and then each gave him
a resounding slap with the tail.

It was like a hundred tack hammers playing a tattoo over his entire
body.

Never had the young diver been in such a peculiar position before.

At last he hit out straight ahead of him.

It was like striking into a mass of jelly.

The little fish flew in all directions, only to return the moment the
young diver's arm was hauled back.

Slowly but surely, however, he got closer to the diving bell.

At last he gained the door and hauled himself inside by main strength.

The bell was full of the tiny fish, and he had literally to squeeze
them out in order to squeeze himself in.

Once in the bell he hardly knew what to do next.

To shut the door under the circumstances was out of the question.

Yet he could not remain below the surface forever.

But while he was meditating upon the unexpected turn of affairs some
other fish came to his aid.

They were long, fat fellows, with stomachs on them resembling
balloons.

There were a score or more of them, and they began to gobble down the
little fish as rapidly as they could swallow them.

A fight ensued between the little fish and the big fish, and in the
end nearly all of the fish of both sorts left the vicinity of the
diving bell for parts unknown.

Realizing what was going on, Dave watched his chance and when only a
few of each kind of fish remained in the diving bell he shut the door.

Then he began to pump out the water, and at the same time signaled to
those on the ship to raise him to the surface.

"A splendid haul!" cried Doctor Barrell, on examining his strange
catch.  "Two spiral whipsnaps, to use the vulgar name, and half a
dozen fish which are new to science."

Captain Broadbeam had taken up one of the little fish and was
examining it with interest.

The fish was dead, having been cut open during the struggle in the
diving bell.

"He's got something inside of him that don't belong there, I reckon,"
said the captain.  "Creation, look here!"

And he held up--a small gold coin!

"A gold coin!" cried Dave.  "A Chinese piece, too!"

"You are right," said Doctor Barrell.

"Perhaps it came from the sunken treasure," put in Amos Fearless, who
stood near.

"Perhaps."

"Then the treasure must be down here, at the bottom of the ocean,"
added Dave.

"It's not unlikely," said the doctor.  "Although such a fish might
swim a long distance with such a coin in his insides."

While the party was talking the matter over, and Doctor Barrell was
preparing to place the spiral fish in a safe place, there came a cry
from the lookout:

"Sail oh!"

"Where away?" cried Captain Broadbeam.

"Dead ahead, sir."

"Can you make her out?"

"A steamer, sir."

"Perhaps it is the _Raven_," said Dave.  And his heart gave a leap.

Slowly the newcomer came closer until, at noon, she was within
hailing distance.

She was really the _Raven_ and she came up boldly, with Lemuel
Hankers, Bart, and several others on her deck.

The _Raven_ would have gained the spot several days before, but an
unexpected breakdown of her machinery had caused a delay.

The wait was maddening to Lemuel Hankers and his son, yet their rage
did them no good.

The _Raven_ came to a standstill when within hailing distance of the
_Swallow_.

"_Raven_, ahoy!" shouted Captain Broadbeam, through his speaking
trumpet.

"Ahoy, the _Swallow_!" came back from Captain Nesik.

"You're a pretty set of rascals!" burst out the honest commander of
the Government vessel.

"Don't talk that way to us!" retorted Captain Nesik.

"Why didn't you rescue us from the savages?"

"We were running on a reef and had to look after our ship," was the
lame excuse.

"You're a set of rascals!" burst out Dave Fearless, and he shook his
fist at those on the _Raven_.

"Don't call me a rascal!" ejaculated Lemuel Hankers.

"But you are one, and your son is another," came from Dave.  "The
mask is off, and in the future you had better keep your distance, or
there will be trouble for you."

"What are you doing here?" demanded Bart, leaning on the rail.

"You know well enough."

"You are after the sunken treasure."

"If we are it is because it belongs to my father and myself,"
retorted Dave.

"We are on the high seas," came from Lemuel Hankers.  "The treasure
was abandoned, and it will belong to whoever succeeds in raising
it--if it can be raised."

"By gum!  I reckon he's right there," muttered Captain Broadbeam.

"Well, we intend to raise it, so you had better clear out," said
Dave, boldly.

At this there arose a howl of derision from those on the _Raven_.

"Go ahead and do as you please," came from Lemuel Hankers.  "But let
me tell you, you have got to have pretty slick divers to get ahead of
those I have hired."

"Whom have you?" questioned Captain Broadbeam, curiously.

"I am not afraid to let you know--Cal Vixen and Sam Walton."

At this announcement the faces of Captain Broadbeam, Amos Fearless,
and Dave fell.

Cal Vixen and Sam Walton were known to be the best divers on the
Pacific coast.

What Amos Fearless and his son had done on the Atlantic shore for the
Government, Cal Vixen and Sam Walton had accomplished on the Pacific
shore.

"Rivals for fair!" murmured Dave.

"Yes, my lad," answered Captain Broadbeam.  "I reckon it will be nip
an' tuck between ye!" And he shook his head doubtfully.

There was a pause in the talk.

"Have you a castaway on board?" questioned Lemuel Hankers, at length.

"No, but we've got a prisoner named Pete Rackley," answered Captain
Broadbeam, with, a chuckle.

"A prisoner!"

"Exactly--and you know what for, Lemuel Hankers, you old fraud!" said
Dave.

"I?  I know nothing."

"You know everything.  Your well-laid plot failed to work, and Pete
Rackley shall remain a prisoner until we can hand him over to the
United States authorities."

A wordy quarrel followed, and presently the two rival divers came
forward.

"We are going down to-morrow," said Vixen, the leader of the pair.
"If you go down, mind and keep your distance."

"You mind and keep yours!" retorted Dave.  "Remember, neither I nor
my father can be scared by you."

"We have been hired to bring up that treasure and we mean to do it."

"I expect to do the same thing--and you shall not stop me."

"All right.  Only look out, or you'll be running up a lot of trouble
on your back!" came from Vixen, and then he and his mate fell back,
and the two ships drifted apart, out of talking distance.

"They mean business," said Dave, to Captain Broadbeam.

"Yes, and they will cause you a lot of trouble if they can," replied
the captain.  "Watch them closely, every time they come near you."

The next day the hunt for the sunken treasure began in earnest.




CHAPTER XXVIII

THE DEMONS OF THE DEEP

As early in the day as possible Captain Broadbeam made another
astronomical calculation and worked out the position of the _Swallow_
on his set of charts.

It was found that the ship lay about one hundred yards to the
westward of where the _Happy Hour_ was reported to have gone down.

This was not much, but the captain immediately gave orders that the
ship be brought to the correct position.

"You'll have work enough locating her as it is," said the captain.
"More than likely the ocean current has shifted her considerably."

Luckily Amos Fearless was now feeling much better, having quite
recovered from his experience at the time of the fire on the ship.

With the _Raven_ on the scene, it was decided by father and son that
the diving bell should be taken directly to the ocean's bottom, if
the thing could be accomplished.

"I know we are running a risk," said the old diver, in his sign
language, "but we must be the first to discover the _Happy Hour_, no
matter what the cost.  To suffer defeat would kill me."

By ten o'clock in the morning the diving bell was over the side and
father and son had entered it.

Those on the _Raven_ were also getting out a diving bell, and Vixen
and Walton were busy overhauling their deep-sea outfits.

It was indeed to be a race for the treasure.

Soon Dave and his parent had left the outside world behind and were
going down and down into the mighty ocean's depths.

On this occasion it had been agreed not to look for anything but the
sunken treasure ship; consequently, the fish net and several other
similar appliances had been left behind.

In their places the diving bell contained several tools for digging
and hauling and also several under-water firearms, for use against a
possible enemy.  In addition to the firearms, father and son had
provided themselves with long and sharp knives.

"There is no telling what we may run across away down there," said
Amos Fearless, in his sign language.  "We are taking our lives in our
hands, to my way of thinking."

And what he said was true--as events speedily proved.

Soon they passed through the darker portion of the ocean and knew
that the first mile of the downward journey had been covered.

Then those above lowered more slowly and watched keenly for the first
signal that danger might be encountered by those below.

"See, it is growing lighter," said Dave, presently, and turned off
the electric lights.

His father had his hand upon the glass side of the diving bell.

"It is also growing warmer," motioned the parent, in his sign
language.

A mile and a half had been covered and now the waters of the ocean
were so clear and light that they could see for a hundred feet about
them.

The water glistened and sparkled like diamonds as it washed against
the sides of the diving bell.

"The light is growing brighter," observed Dave, presently.  "Isn't it
wonderful!"

They now felt they were approaching the bottom of the Pacific, for
the diving bell was moving very slowly.  Soon they saw great,
ribbon-like grasses, the ends floating upward past the diving bell.

At this Amos Fearless shook his head.

"We don't want to get caught in those grasses," he signed.  "They may
prove worse than ropes of wire."

Suddenly a slight jar on the bottom of the diving bell told them that
the machine had struck something.  It no longer descended, but
wabbled from side to side.

At once Amos Fearless signaled through the air-tube to stop lowering.
Then a small glass trap was opened in the diving bell's bottom.

Through this they saw what had caused the machine to stop.  It was
caught in the top-most branches of a submarine tree.  Below them,
upon all sides, was a regular submarine forest.

The trees were two to three hundred feet tall, twisted and gnarled in
all directions, with branches stretching out of their sight.

Some of the trees boasted of most gorgeous flowers, while from others
floated what looked like luscious fruits.

Below the trees could be seen strange mosses and sponges, of every
imaginable hue and shape, and between them bushes and creeping vines.

"This is a submarine paradise!" whispered Dave.  "Did you ever dream
of anything so lovely?"

"Lovely--and dangerous!" came from Amos Fearless.  And then he added:
"I see nothing of the _Happy Hour_."

He was right--there was no sign of a sunken ship anywhere.

"Let us take the diving bell in a grand circle around this spot,"
suggested Dave.

His father agreed, providing the thing could be accomplished without
positive danger.

To move around, they had to pull the machine along from one tree-top
to another by means of the crab-like claws attached to the bottom.

The diving bell worked like a charm and soon a distance of several
hundred yards had been covered.

Sometimes the crab-like claws would slip on the tree-tops and at
others the trees would break off with a dull, snapping report.  When
this would happen the sap flowing from the tree would be pure yellow
in color.

In order to see at a great distance Amos Fearless now adjusted a
powerful light which had been brought along, using a small reflector
behind it.

Suddenly Dave let out a cry:

"The rival divers!"

He was right.  At a great distance he had seen the other diving bell
coming down.

It contained Vixen and Walton.  Bart Hankers had said he was coming
down with them, but had backed out at the last moment, much to the
divers' satisfaction, for they had counted that he would only be in
their way.

As swiftly as the other diving bell had come into view, it now faded
from sight beyond another portion of the great submarine forest.

"They are close upon our heels," muttered Dave, and again Amos
Fearless shook his head, doubtfully.

At last the diving bell gained the edge of the forest and came to a
rest upon one of the banks of moss of many colors.

A short distance away the bank sloped downward into a sort of valley.

Here it was darker, and what there was at the bottom of the valley
there was no telling without an investigation.

Should they leave the diving bell upon an exploring tour?

They debated the subject for several minutes.

It would be a risky thing to do, although as yet they had encountered
no strange fish or marine monsters at this great depth.

With care they adjusted their diving suits and then armed themselves
with their knives and submarine guns.

Then the door of the bell was opened slowly.

The pressure of the water became enormous and their suits of steel
creaked as if to crash in upon them, as a shell can squeeze in upon
the inside of an egg.

But they had calculated upon all this, and the suits held as expected.

When they stepped out upon the moss they found it as soft and
yielding as a thick velvet carpet.

They advanced with caution toward the edge of the slope before them,
casting their eyes continually upon all sides for the first sign of
danger.

They had thus gone a distance of two hundred feet when Dave pointed
to a mound to their right.

He had seen something strange moving among the moss.

Of a sudden the moss was uplifted like a blanket and the young diver
fell back in amazement.

Before him stood a monster as startling as it was horrible.

Whether it was fish, beast, or demon, he could not tell, but it was
certainly so awful that his very heart appeared to stop beating as he
gazed upon it.

It had a long, round body, fat and blubbery, with two legs in the
center, two arms near the neck, and at the end the tail of a fish.

The head was shaped like a huge pear, with eyes blinking savagely
from either side of a nose which was as long and pointed as a cow's
horn.

The mouth of the demon was wide open, showing a double row of sharp,
bluish teeth and a tongue covered with yellow slime.

All told, the creature was at least ten feet long, and when it stood
up it towered well over the heads of the two divers.

On the instant Dave raised his gun, but his father was before him,
and a bullet from Amos Fearless' submarine gun took the demon
squarely in the breast.

Hardly had the bullet reached its mark than the demon uttered a roar
which rang in the divers' ears like thunder.

As if by magic the roar was answered from half a dozen near-by places
and the moss was flung right and left.

The demons of the ocean's bottom had been sleeping, and the roar had
aroused them to a sense of danger.

They came walking and swimming up from every direction, and in a
twinkle Amos Fearless and Dave found themselves surrounded and
hopelessly cut off from the diving bell!




CHAPTER XXIX

THE ESCAPE FROM THE DEMONS

It was a situation calculated to make the stoutest heart quail.

Amos Fearless and Dave were surrounded by the demons of the deep!

The horrible ocean monsters pressed close upon them, their big eyes
fairly starting from their heads, their long arms working
convulsively, and their sweeping tails working the brine up into a
milk-white foam.

Evidently the battle-cry had gone forth, for more monsters were
coming up each instant.

Father and son looked at each other mutely.  Both felt that the end
must be near.

The din increased, and being under water was so painful to the two
divers that they almost fainted from the concussions.

In the midst of the uproar, however, there came a sudden and dead
silence.

Other monsters were approaching, leading to the scene a monster
larger than the rest.  It was the king of the submarine demons.

At the approach of the king all the others fell back.

The king advanced, with eyes as staring as his followers, but with a
tail that was motionless.

Ten feet from Amos Fearless and Dave he halted.

For a moment nothing was done upon either side.

Evidently the king of the demons was calculating the best manner of
attacking the strange objects which had appeared in his realm.

He had seen the dead bodies of human beings, but never had he beheld
live human beings, with skins of steel and rubber.

At last he came up cautiously and put out one long and bony hand
towards Dave.

The movement was so slow that Dave was filled more with curiosity
than with fear.

The king of the demons felt of Dave's legs, his body and his arms.

Then he took hold of the submarine gun and suddenly wrenched it from
the young diver's grasp.

With the gun he went back to his followers.

In the meantime the demon that had been shot was slowly dying,
surrounded by a number of his friends.

As soon as he was dead the others rent him limb from limb and began
to eat him up!

They were cannibals!

The king of the demons handled the gun he had taken rather gingerly,
nevertheless his hand, or paw, struck the trigger, and the submarine
weapon was discharged full into the face of another demon sitting
near.

A wild sound immediately arose, and as the shot demon fell back dead,
several other demons closed in upon the king.

Soon the monsters were fighting wildly among themselves.  The water
was dyed half a dozen shades, shutting in the fighters as in a cloud.

Amos Fearless touched Dave on the arm and motioned his son to follow
him.

The young diver understood, and in haste the pair withdrew from the
circle of combat.

Then they literally ran for the diving bell.

It was a fearful strain upon each, for their diving suits weighed
seventy-five pounds apiece.

They were still a score of feet from the bell when some of the demons
saw them running and started in pursuit.

"We are lost now!" thought Dave, but continued to run, and urged his
parent before him.

At last both gained the diving bell, all but exhausted.

Entering, they snapped the door shut and sent the signal up.

Soon the bell was rising.  To assist, they began to pump the water
out of the bell.

The demons swarmed all around the bell, but did not dare to touch the
glass sides or the crab-like claws.

Soon the bell passed from the zone of submarine light and then the
demons dropped back, for they could not breathe in the upper portions
of the ocean.

The bell cleared of water, father and son took off their diving suits.

"Thank Heaven we are out of that!" came in the sign language from
Amos Fearless.

"We were lucky to escape," answered Dave, earnestly.  "But, father,
the treasure--how will we ever get at it, with those demons around?"

At this the old diver shook his head slowly.

It was a problem difficult, if not impossible, to solve.

"I wouldn't like to meet those fellows again for a million dollars,"
went on Dave.

And his father agreed with him.

It seemed a long while before they emerged from the ocean, at the
side of the _Swallow_.

Those on the ship lost no time in bringing them on board and
questioning them regarding what they had discovered.

The story about the demons was listened to with keen interest by
Doctor Barrell.

"Ah, they must belong to the lost order of chilusia damondaribytis!"
cried the learned man.  "They are supposed to have lived at one time
upon the lost continent of Atlantis.  But if so, how did they come
here, in the middle of the Pacific?  It is a great mystery.  You must
bring up one of them in the net."

"Thanks, but I don't want the job," replied Dave, quickly.

"But, my dear young man, think of the interest to science--the--the
great fame it will bring you."

"Not if the chilu-what's-his-name chews me up, doctor.  You just
ought to see them.  Why, they are enough to give you bad dreams for a
month."

"Then I will go down myself in the diving bell.  If it is light, as
you say, perhaps I can get some snapshot photographs of them," went
on the learned man.

"What if they take it into their heads to smash the diving bell to
pieces?"

"Cannot you keep them at a distance with the submarine firearms?"

"Hardly; but I was thinking we might take down some submarine
torpedoes," went on Dave, suddenly.

The matter was talked over for fully an hour, and at last it was
decided that another trial should be made the next day, and the
divers should take along two submarine torpedoes, with which to blow
up the demons should the latter molest them.

In the meantime Captain Broadbeam had his glass trained upon the
_Raven_, and presently he announced that the diving bell from that
ship was coming up.

All watched eagerly for the reappearance of Vixen and Walton, the
rival divers.

At last the men were hauled up on the deck of the _Raven_.

It was seen that Walton was injured and had to be carried to the
cabin by some of the sailors.

The rival divers had met only two of the demons of the deep, but an
awful conflict had occurred, and Walton had had his left arm nearly
torn from the socket and was suffering from the effects of the water
which had poured into his diving suit.

"I'll not go down again," announced Vixen.  "Not for a thousand
dollars a trip."

"What, you don't intend to give up the search already?" cried Lemuel
Hankers, in horror.

"I do."

"But you agreed to find the _Happy Hour_," put in Bart.  "You must
stick to your agreement."

"It's wuss nor putting your head into a lion's mouth," persisted Cal
Vixen.  "If you don't believe it, go down yourself."

"I will go down--if you'll go with me," said Bart.  He was so anxious
to get the Washington fortune that his former timidity was overcome.

Vixen held out all day about going down again, but several drinks of
liquor at last made him bolder, and he agreed to try once more,
providing Bart would go with him, and providing the bell was stored
with explosives with which to fight off the demons if they showed
themselves again.

The day proved cloudy, and it looked as if a storm were brewing.

"But I don't reckon we'll get it right away," said Captain Broadbeam.
"And if you want to get ahead of the _Raven's_ crowd you had better
go down.  I see they are getting ready to put their bell over again."

At half-past nine the _Swallow's_ diving bell was hoisted into the
Pacific once more, and Dave and his father entered it.

"We may never see you again, captain," said the young diver.  "If we
don't, good-by!"

A minute later the diving bell disappeared beneath the surface of the
mighty Pacific.




CHAPTER XXX

IN A DIVING BELL

Down and down went the bell.

The spot chosen was about five hundred feet to the northward of where
the bell had gone down before--directly over the valley the divers
had discovered.

Amos Fearless was of the opinion that if the _Happy Hour_ was at all
in that vicinity she must lie at the bottom of the valley.

The dark zone of waters was passed, and now they came into the light
once more.

The water was warm and as clear as crystal, showing nothing of the
dye and foam produced by the battle of the deep-sea monsters.

A number of curious fish sailed past the diving bell--fish which they
had not seen before.

One was jet-black and shaped exactly like a pillow tied in the middle.

Another was red, white, and blue, with six eyes which shone like
stars of silver.

"That's a regular starry-flag fish," was Dave's comment.  "I wonder
if we can take the sight of that for a good sign?"

"Let us hope so," answered Amos Fearless, in his sign language.

The old diver's voice was gradually improving, and that morning he
had spoken a few words to Dave in a hoarse whisper.

At last they came in sight of that mossy plain, which, the day
before, had almost been the scene of their death.

The diving bell was halted and they gazed around sharply for some
sign of the demons.

Not a monster of the deep was in sight.

The moss was torn up on all sides, and here and there lay parts of
bodies and bones, but that was all.

"Perhaps they all killed each other," suggested Dave.

"Let us hope so," came from his father.

The mossy plain was now passed, and gradually the diving bell slipped
down the slope of the valley beyond.

Here the light was not so good and they had to turn on the
electricity.

At the bottom of the valley grew a number of submarine trees and
bushes, with vines which sent up their swaying bodies several
hundreds of feet into the crystal-like water.

At last the diving bell came to a stop at the very bottom of the
valley, among the trees.

They signaled to stop lowering and then brought out a tiny
searchlight which had been brought along.

This was swept in every direction.

Suddenly Dave uttered an exclamation:

"Look!  There is something which resembles a ship's stern!"

The young diver was right.  Far down the valley his eye had beheld
some woodwork, half buried in the muck and moss.

In a few minutes both father and son were working the claw-like feet
of the diving bell and moving toward the wreckage in crab-like
fashion.

As they advanced they saw a dark object above them coming down
swiftly.

Amos Fearless caught his son by the arm and both drew back.

Then Dave gave a start.

The dark object was the diving bell from the _Raven_!

The bell contained Cal Vixen, Lemuel Hankers, and Bart.

Dave motioned to his father in the sign language of the divers:

"Come, let us get to the wreck first."

Amos Fearless caught his son by the arm and moved forward once more.

But the rival diving bell was between them and their object, and they
had to make a semicircle with their own diving bell.

The rivals now saw the bell from the _Swallow_, and as both bells
came closer, Lemuel Hankers shook his fist at the Fearlesses.

"You're a cheerful enemy," was Dave's dry comment.

Soon our friends were close to the wreckage, and Dave gave a shout:

"The _Happy Hour_!  See, the name is on the stern!"

He was right, the wreck was indeed that of the ship for which they
had searched so long.

The second diving bell now came up and came to a standstill directly
at the side of the wreck.

But Dave was the first on board, and as Vixen approached he motioned
to the rival diver in the sign language:

"We claim this wreck, which we discovered first."

"We claim the wreck," returned Cal Vixen.

And he made several motions to Lemuel Hankers and his son.

It soon looked as if there would be a fight then and there, but this
would have been suicidal for all hands.

Yet when Dave and his father tried to enter the cabin of the _Happy
Hour_, Cal Vixen attempted to bar their way.

Instantly Amos Fearless seized the rival diver and hurled him back.

"Touch me or my son and you will pay dearly for it," he motioned to
Vixen.

At this the rival diver fell back, knowing full well that Amos
Fearless was not a person with whom to trifle.

Slowly and cautiously Dave entered the cabin of the _Happy Hour_.

His father followed, and at a respectable distance came Cal Vixen and
the two Hankers.

The cabin was badly wrecked, and in it nothing of value remained.

"I wonder if we can get down into the hold," thought Dave, and
motioned to his father.

"We will try," came back from the old diver.  "But be careful, or you
won't get out alive."

The pair advanced with great caution, going down through the forward
hatch.

In the meantime the rival party entered the hold by the rear hatch.

It was very dark, and the electric light shone but dimly here, for
the water was so foul it contaminated the air they carried.

To the intense surprise of all, the hold of the _Happy Hour_ was
absolutely bare!

Dave could scarcely believe the evidence of his senses.

The great treasure was gone!

Their trip to the middle of the Pacific and to the bottom of that
mighty ocean had availed them nothing.

Father and son stared helplessly at each other and then at the rival
party.

All were equally dumfounded.

The rage of the Hankers knew no bounds.

Lemuel Hankers would not believe the truth, and had Cal Vixen go with
him and Bart on a thorough search throughout the wreck, and all
around it.

It was useless; the _Happy Hour_ and the vicinity were absolutely
bare of the first trace of gold, or, in fact, of anything of value.

With heavy hearts the Hankers party returned to their diving bell.

"The jig is up!" cried Bart, as soon as he was inside and could
speak.  "Oh, what a sell!"

"I was mad to believe in it!" came from Lemuel Hankers.  "And to
think that I have spent thousands of dollars on a fool's; errand!"
And tears of miserly rage flowed down his cheeks.

"I reckon we might as well go up," put in Cal Vixen.  He, too, was
disgusted.

They gave the signal, and gradually their diving bell began to leave
the valley at the ocean's bottom.

But less than quarter of a mile of the distance to the surface was
covered when there came a shock on top of the diving bell which, sent
all inside sprawling headlong.

Then came another shock and the water began to pour into the bell.

Some great monster of the deep had hit the bell and cracked some of
the upper joints.

The collision showed those above that something was wrong, and they
began to haul in faster than ever.

But great damage had been done also to the monster, which was
somewhat similar to a deep-sea whale.

He became entangled in the guide line of the diving bell and was
hauled up to the surface in spite of himself.

"Hullo, what's this?" cried Captain Nesik, when the monster came into
view.

Then ensued a battle royal for fully five minutes.

At last the monster was cut loose and disappeared, with a loud
splash, into the ocean.

Then the diving bell was hoisted aboard and opened.

It was found that those inside had been almost drowned, and all were
unable to help themselves and had to be carried to the ship's cabin.
Here they lingered for many hours between life and death.

The diving bell was ruined, and it was doubtful if another search for
the treasure could be made by the Hankers' party.




CHAPTER XXXI

THE TREASURE AT LAST--CONCLUSION

Little dreaming of the accident which had overtaken their rivals,
Amos Fearless and Dave returned to their own diving bell.

The heart of each was heavy, and for several minutes neither felt
like speaking.

"A wild-goose chase," said the old diver at last.  "I might have
known it would prove so."

"But what has become of the gold!" returned Dave.  "It couldn't walk
off of itself."

"That is true.  Perhaps those on board of the _Happy Hour_ took it
off, when they found the ship was about to sink."

"But they never brought any of the treasure to land."

"No--at least, none that was reported.  They might have done such a
thing in secret."

"Supposing we move the bell around and make another search,"
suggested Dave.  "The demons appear to have vanished."

They pumped in a fresh supply of air and then moved around in a large
circle.

It was hard work, and the confinement of the diving bell gave each a
headache and a strange ringing in the ears.

Presently they came to a curiously shaped mound of shells, covered
with moss.

"Hullo, what's this?" said Dave.  "Hang me if it doesn't look like
the home of some submarine animal.  Perhaps it's a meeting house for
those demons."

"If it is, we had better move on," replied Amos Fearless, in the sign
language.

But Dave was curious to investigate, and presently they replaced
their helmets, took in some fresh air, and sallied forth to examine
the mound.

Inside all was damp--a dampness different from that produced by the
water around them.

The mound proved to be hollow, with the walls covered with brilliant
seashells of all colors.

At the top was a round hole to admit light.

In the center was a smaller mound, with a curious hump in the middle.

"Nothing here," signed Amos Fearless, when of a sudden something
glittering caught Dave's eye.

He stooped and picked up--a gold coin!

In a moment he was digging away at the small mound in the center of
the shell-like structure.

The moss came away readily, and to their gaze was disclosed--a heap
of shining gold!

"The treasure!" burst from the young diver.  "Found at last!"

His father was equally pleased.

The gold was mixed with bits of other bright metal and glass, for
whoever had stored it there had known no difference in value and had
simply made a collection of stuff bright to the eye.

"Let us go back and fill up the diving bell," said Amos Fearless, by
signs.

Dave was more than willing, and they soon had the diving bell as
close as possible to the door of the mound.

They had brought several bags along, and into these they began
heaping the gold.

It was hard work, but this they did not mind.

The finding of the treasure meant to them a lifetime of leisure, had
they a mind to take it.

At last the bags were full and still more of the gold remained.

"We will pile it on the floor of the diving bell," signed Amos
Fearless.  "Let us make one trip of it.  After this I never wish to
visit the bottom of the sea again."

Both worked steadily, and in half an hour had every piece of gold in
sight picked up.

They were just taking the last of the gold to the diving bell when a
horrible roar broke upon their ears.

The demons of the deep were returning to the locality.

"Quick!" cried Dave.  "Or it will be all up with us!"

Father and son ran for the diving bell.

But now the demons saw them and the roar increased.

Soon fully fifty of the ferocious creatures were leaping and swimming
toward the mound.

Their sharp teeth clicked together as if anxious to bury themselves
in the bodies of the human beings.

With all haste Amos Fearless and Dave got into the diving bell.  But
before they could close the door one of the demons was upon them.

He caught the old diver by the head, intending to pull that member
from the rest of the body.

Dave's heart leaped into his throat, yet his presence of mind did not
desert him.

Raising one of the submarine guns he blazed away and caught the
monster of the deep straight in the mouth and throat.

Mortally wounded, the demon fell back, one arm still within the
doorway of the diving bell.

As quickly as possible Amos Fearless turned and shoved the arm
outside.

Dave was about to close the door when his father motioned him to
desist.

Then the old diver caught up one of the torpedoes which had been
brought along, set its clock-like movements in motion, and hurled it
forth among the approaching company of demons.

It fell in their midst, and, attracted by the shining metallic
covering of the torpedo, all crowded around the object.

As they did this, the door of the diving bell was closed and the
signal was sent up to hoist away immediately.

Hardly had the diving bell begun to move when a fearful shock made it
quiver from top to bottom and cracked one of the glass sides.

The torpedo had exploded, dealing death and destruction among the
demons of the deep, impossible to describe.

Fully a score of the monsters were utterly annihilated, while nearly
every one of the others was badly wounded.

One that escaped came after the diving bell, trying vainly to destroy
the bell and those inside.

But an unlucky movement caused the demon to come in contact with one
of the crab-like claws of the bell, and seeing this, Dave worked the
claw instantly, thus making the demon a prisoner.

The creature flopped violently, but as the bell ascended to the upper
waters of the ocean, it seemed to become stunned, and before the
surface was gained it lay utterly helpless.

Soon the diving bell was hoisted aboard of the _Swallow_.

"The gold at last!" cried Captain Broadbeam.  "Hurrah!  I was afraid
something awful had happened."

"And the wonderful monster," put in Doctor Barrell.  "What an odd
creature!  It will make a grand exhibition at the Smithsonian
Institution."

"You'll have to pickle him in alcohol, doctor," said Dave, with a
laugh.

Both Amos Fearless and Dave were very weak from having remained at
the ocean's bottom so long, and it was several days before either
felt entirely like himself again.

Strange to say, however, the trip after the treasure had helped Mr.
Fearless' organs of speech, and soon he could talk almost as well as
ever.

"This is the best yet," declared Dave.  "It's better than finding the
treasure."

"I am thankful from the bottom of my heart," answered the old diver,
and his face showed that he spoke the truth.

"I don't think that I want to go to the bottom of the Pacific again,
father."

"Nor I, Dave.  It is too full of perils."

The storm that had been threatening broke the next day, and was a
great strain on the _Swallow_ and likewise on the _Raven_.  The
latter ship sprung a leak, and the _Swallow_ stood by, ready to offer
assistance if she should go down.

During that time those on the _Raven_ heard of the finding of the
treasure.

"I claim half of that treasure," said Lemuel Hankers.

"You'll never get it," replied Amos Fearless, firmly.

When the two ships separated it was discovered by those on the
_Swallow_ that Pete Rackley was missing.

"Do you know what I think!" said Dave.  "I think he escaped to the
_Raven_."

"Well, let him go," said Captain Broadbeam.  "We can well afford to
do without him."

"Do you think the Hankers will make any further trouble for us?"
asked Dave of his father.

"That remains to be seen," answered Amos Fearless.  The Hankers and
their friends did try to make trouble, and how will to be told in
another volume, to be called "Dave Fearless on a Floating Island; or,
The Cruise of the Treasure Ship."

After the storm the weather became pleasant, and then Captain
Broadbeam began the long journey home.



THE END.









*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 73763 ***
